 Manchester, United Kingdom | AFP | Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho left Paul Pogba on the bench once more for Tuesday’s Champions League last 16, second leg against Sevilla with Marouane Fellaini making a surprise return instead. Pogba, who joined United for a then world record £89 million ($116 million) from Juventus in 2016, sat out Saturday’s 2-1 victory over Liverpool due to injury and had been dropped by Mourinho for the first leg in Spain three weeks ago that ended 0-0. Fellaini only returned from a five-week injury layoff for the final 20 minutes against Liverpool, but is preferred to Scott McTominay in one of two changes from the weekend as Jesse Lingard also replaces Juan Mata.  Marcus Rashford is rewarded for scoring twice on his first Premier League start of the year, while Alexis Sanchez keeps his place despite netting just once in nine appearances since joining from Arsenal in January. Sevilla make one enforced change from the first leg as the injured Jesus Navas is replaced by Simon Kjaer. The Danish defender is expected to slot into his natural position in central defence with Argentine international Gabriel Mercado moving to right-back. Manchester United (4-2-3-1) David de Gea; Antonio Valencia (capt), Chris Smalling, Eric Bailly, Ashley Young; Marouane Fellaini, Nemanja Matic; Jesse Lingard, Alexis Sanchez, Marcus Rashford; Romelu Lukaku Coach: Jose Mourinho (POR) Sevilla (4-2-3-1) Sergio Rico; Gabriel Mercado, Simon Kjaer, Clement Lenglet, Sergio Escudero (capt); Ever Banega, Steven N’Zonzi; Pablo Sarabia, Franco Vazquez, Joaquin Correa; Luis Muriel Coach: Vincenzo Montella (ITA) Referee: Danny Makkelie (NED) The post Pogba misses out again as Fellaini starts for Man Utd appeared first on The Independent Uganda:. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Independent Uganda:. Click here to read the full text on the original website.