Ashley Young has encouraged his Manchester United teammate Luke Shaw to ‘get his head down and work’ in order to revive his career. Luke Shaw has endured a stop-start period at Old Trafford due to injury and being out of favour with Jose Mourinho, with the Portuguese being critical of the left-back’s performance against Brighton on Saturday evening. Ashley Young has refused to discuss reports which have questioned the future of his teammate, but the versatile wideman feels that Shaw can still become one of world’s best during his period in the North-West. The 32-year-old told BBC Radio 5 live: “I am not here to talk about other people and whatnot. Obviously he is a player that wants to do well, I want to see him doing well. It’s like all players, you just have to get your head down and work.” “He is a fantastic player. I feel he can be one of the best in the world. As I say, you’ve just got to work hard.” Asked if Shaw can fight his way back into Mourinho’s plans, Young said: “Yes, of course. He is a fantastic player. I feel he can be one of the best in the world. You’ve just got to work hard. We’ve got a healthy competition in our squad and when you’ve got world-class players training day in, day out, everybody wants to be in that team. It is tough. I’ve always said, when you join a club like United it’s a tough place to play at. “But if you play and train and give 100%, then get your opportunity – I’ve always said you always get your opportunity there.” Young is hopeful of cementing a place in the World Cup squad. “I feel like I am playing with confidence, I have done all season,” said the 32-year-old. “I’ve been playing more than I thought I would. “I’ve wanted to cement my place in the team and I am back in the England squad, which I am delighted to be in. There’s a World Cup at the end of it [season]. Who knows what’s going to happen? I’ve just got to be impressive to the England manager and hopefully be on that plane.” The post Luke Shaw Can Be One Of The World’s Best Left-back- Ashely Young appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.