  D’Tigress point and shooting guard, Sarah Ogoke Ejiogu has said she will use the Spanish League Division two play off to prepare herself for the FIBA World coming in Spain from September 22 to 30. Ogoke-Ejiogu, who is in her second year with Celta, stated that the play offs, which will take place at the end of next month, would aid her performance at the World Cup. She also noted that the Sam Vincent-led technical crew has the wherewithal to lead the team to glory. The 2017 Afrobasket winner, who is hoping to lead her team to the Spanish Basketball League first division, said the first task before the team at the World Cup is to qualify from the group which also has Argentina, Australia and Turkey. “I am using this Spanish League Two Playoffs as a stepping stone to doing greater things at the World Cup. Our chances are very good, especially with our current coaches. The first goal is to get out of our pool. That in itself will be history. Then the fight to try and get a medal will continue,” she added. “Of course, the other teams are better ranked because this is obviously our first time going to the World Cup long while. They are good teams but we are also impressive and we will surely turn some heads this summer. I don’t have any doubts we can shock some countries,” Ejiogu added. She noted that the experience of Coach Vincent, a former NBA head coach of Michael Jordan’s Charlotte team, will surely come in handy when hostilities begin at the World Cup. “Sam Vincent has the experience to lead us to success. Without any disrespect to Mfom Udoka and other trailblazers, I think the current crop of players have the potential to do better. “This is a new era of Nigerian women basketball. Things are different and we are ready to make our country proud. Our goal is a top 5 finish or even win a medal. But it’s important to take things one step at a time. Nigeria has never gotten out of its group. But I am confident we can do that this year. If that happens then anything is possible,”Ejiogu added.  The post Ogoke-Ejiogu eyes medal with D’Tigress appeared first on The Nation Nigeria. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Nation NigeriaThe Nation Nigeria - App Feed. Click here to read the full text on the original website.