Perhaps it was due to the excitement from the evening’s events in the #bbnaija house, the alcohol provided by Biggie or just plain envy, last night Cee-C totally went on rampage, even as she made Nina her main target. It seems she was unhappy and regretted being the resident chef on the night of day 50, because it seems it was the most dramatic dinner in the #bbnaija House yet. The night of day 50 turned into a burning furnace within minutes after the #bbnaija housemates completed the Lumapil Task. It was all smiles and jeers and laughs one minute and the next it was utter craziness. Cee-C had been provoking Nina all day but things finally came to a head in the kitchen when Cee-C blew up. She went all bananas, insulting Nina and Nina retaliated. At one point there were even threats of physical harm and the whole #bbnaija House had to spring to action to calm the two ladies down and prevent any serious damage. It seems that Cee-C wanted something like this to occur all day and used the excuse of Nina giving Miracle the biggest piece of meat as a catalyst for her angry rants. As Cee-C stormed off outside, the altercation resulted in different #bbnaija Housemates springing to the aid of both ladies. Initially Alex jumped into the argument but quickly backed off and tried to calm the situation down. Later on, Teddy A listened to Cee-C’s side of the story outside while smoking a cigarette. Rico Swavey was very much on the side of Nina as he thought Cee-C was being rather wild but also realised his place soon and backed off. However, the most interesting gist of the night was when Miracle went to Cee-C alone to sort out the beef, he told Cee-C in plain terms that he does not trust her and they slowly started to hash through their issues with a few laughs. Miracle However looked as though he was doing it more to protect Nina than to get close to Cee-C who barely let him get a word in throughout the discussion. Lolu also immediately ran to Cee-C’s aid, even after Nominating her in the Diary Room earlier that night. He also thereafter ran over to Nina to get her side of the story. After the massive fight, the food was ready and all the #bbnaija Housemates gathered in the kitchen to grab some food. Nina and Cee-C did not resolve their issue and this led to everyone scattering around the House to eat without the awkward tension that could be felt by all. Is this all a part of Cee-C’s strategy to create chaos in the house or is envious of Nina? The post #BBNaija 2018 Day 51: Cee-C’s Chaotic Behaviour appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.