The Nigeria Football Federation leaders on Tuesday visited ailing Super Eagles goalkeeper Carl Ikeme  at Christie Clinic in Manchester. Ikeme was diagnosed with acute leukaemia in July,  and the  Wolverhampton Wanderers  custodian  has been receiving treatment. In a statement, the football house said the NFF president Amaju Pinnick led the delegation consisting of 1st vice-president Seyi Akinwunmi, General Secretary Mohammed Sanusi,  as well as  the national team’s administrator  Dayo Enebi,  goalkeeping coach  Alloy Agu and  spokesman for the team  Toyin Ibitoye. Pinnick said,  “We have come on behalf of the government of Nigeria and the NFF to check up on you, find out how your recovery is going and to tell you that you are still very much on our minds and a member of the Super Eagles. “We have also come to seek your permission to be our special guest at the  friendly game against England at  Wembley Stadium on  June 2. We want you to perform the customary kick-off of that game and if you approve of it, we will immediately request this of The Football Association.” Ikeme said,  “I am so overwhelmed by this show of love. I am indeed grateful to Nigerians who daily flood my phone with prayers and well wishes. I feel their love  every day on social media. I thank the government of Nigeria and the NFF for all the support and I appreciate my teammates so much for being there for me.”   _________ Follow us on Twitter at @thesignalng Copyright 2018 SIGNAL. Permission to use portions of this article is granted provided appropriate credits are given to www.signalng.com and other relevant sources. The post NFF Chiefs Visit Ailing Ikeme appeared first on SIGNAL. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from SIGNAL. Click here to read the full text on the original website.