The Cross River State government and the MTN Foundation, alongside other relevant healthcare agencies, have pledged to work collaboratively to tackle the menace of infant and maternal mortality in the state. The partnership, which was announced recently at MTNF Yellow Heart Health Forum in Calabar, is a demonstration of MTN Foundation’s commitment to reduce maternal and child mortality by increasing awareness of the phenomenon in Nigeria and aligning with global efforts to meet the health targets of Sustainable Development Goals. Speaking on the Foundation’s decision to support the Cross River State government on this initiative, Dennis Okoro, director, MTN Foundation, said, “We are very sensitive to challenges within our society and it is against this backdrop that the Foundation created a mandate to spend towards improving the state of healthcare, education and economic empowerment. “We hope to use the Yellow Heart initiative to address predominant issues such as attitudes and cultural practices that hinder women and children from accessing healthcare services in the society.” Expressing appreciation on behalf of the state government, wife of the governor of Cross River State, Linda Ayade, commended the Foundation for the Yellow Heart Initiative and other impactful projects commissioned by the Foundation in the state. “The MTN Foundation deserves to be commended for initiating several interventions in the state, particularly in the area of health. The donation of the Y’ello Doctor mobile clinic and a haemodialysis centre, and the renovation of the post-natal ward at the general hospital are among the several impactful initiatives of the MTN Foundation in the state and we are sincerely grateful,” she said. The first lady further disclosed that the Yellow heart initiative aligned with actions of the state government in improving healthcare in the state. “We founded the Mediatrix Development Foundation (MDF) to channel health and development interventions that will address the needs of the vulnerable and less privileged in the state. 1000 persons have received dental and eye care including drugs and laboratory services, we have provided 219 free surgeries, 280 women have received breast and cervical cancer screening, among others,” she said. Commenting on what the partnership means for the state, Inyang Asibong, Cross River commissioner for health, said the initiative would immensely improve the health and survival rate of women and children in Cross River State. “This is a welcome development, as we continue to ensure sustainable development for all Cross Riverians through sustainable healthcare, especially for our mothers and children; we invite the MTN Foundation to continue to partner with us in various other aspects of our healthcare delivery system. “In Cross River State, especially the Health sector, maternal, newborn and child health issues are paramount, this is evident in the huge reduction of maternal mortality indices from 1,500 to 576, far below the national average,” she said. Other Yellow Heart activities, which took place in the state, include a panel discussion on maternal and child health, ante natal and post-natal sensitization for pregnant women, distribution of delivery kits for pregnant women around the state, and an awareness walk tagged “Walk for Life.” The MTN Foundation has partnered with the Ministry of Health on multiple projects related to this cause. This includes the Maternal Ward Support project which has facilitated the renovation of 24 maternal wards across the country, and the ‘Y’ello Doctor’ project which has seen Mobile clinics supporting the medical needs of mothers and children commissioned in six states.  MIKE ABANG, Calabar The post Cross River partners MTN Foundation on Yellow Heart Initiative appeared first on BusinessDay : News you can trust. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from BusinessDay : News you can trust. Click here to read the full text on the original website.