The Nigerian Military has berated a former chief of army staff, lieutenant general Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma for calling on Nigerians to arm themselves that the armed forces was colluding with militias and other criminal elements and was unable to provide security for them. In a statement signed by Texas Chukwu, spokesman of the army, on Sunday,  the army described the statement as unfortunate and denied any form of collusion between the army and any militia or corrupt elements. The army said Nigerian army would not want to join issues with the elder statesman and accused the Taraba state government of failing to cooperate with them to end the crisis because of their decision to remain absolutely neutral. The statement reads: “The attention of the Nigerian army has been drawn to the unfortunate statement made by a former chief of army staff, lieutenant general Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma, during the convocation ceremony of the Taraba State University on Saturday 24 March 2018 in which he categorically asserted that the armed forces of Nigeria was colluding with militias and other criminal elements and was unable to provide security for the citizens of Taraba state “He further called the people of Taraba state to take up arms and defend themselves. The Nigerian army views this statement made by the former chief of army staff as most unfortunate at this critical time that the military has embarked upon demilitarisation of the north-central region of the country. “While Nigerian army would not want to join issues with the elder statesman, however, certain facts need to be clearly stated in the interest of the Taraba people and the Nigerian public – the Nigerian Army is constitutionally charged with the responsibility of defending the territorial integrity of Nigeria and to aid the civil authority whenever called upon to do so. “In this light, the authorisation for the conduct of Ex AYEM AKPATUMA was authorised and troops deployed to curb menace of the herdsmen-farmers conflict and other criminal activities in the north-central region amongst others. “It is noteworthy to state that at the inception of Ex AYEM AKPATUMA, the Taraba state government, did not cooperate with the Nigerian army due to the army’s stance to remain absolutely neutral in the herdsmen-farmers crisis. “The Nigerian army will continue to remain as such.” Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook