By Gabriel Olawale AFRICLEARN, a new dig ital education platform for students, teachers and publishers has taken the centre-stage to ease learning process in Nigeria. Speaking during the official launch in Lagos, the CEO, AfricLearn, Mr. Femi Sanusi said the digital solution was designed to provide personalised learning for secondary and tertiary school students and institutions for improved performance. “Curriculum-aligned textbook content has been an issue with most digital learning solutions in the country. AfricLearn tends to provide a unique solution to bridge this content gap.”  Sanusi said the solution has an online and offline facility which can be accessed on subscription at a very affordable rate. “The vision is to ensure that education is affordable. All that is  required is for a user to have a mobile phone, tablet or a PC, and then you can log on to the website and access your books while online.” Sanusi said a free teaching video was also embedded in every chapter of a textbook subscribed by a user for practical and in-depth analysis. According to him, the syllabus used by the solution is made up of West Africa Examination Council (WAEC), National Examination Council (NECO) and those of some foreign examination bodies. He said Africlearn ebooks come with linked assessment questions to test reader. “Parents and schools that subscribe for their children and students are able to keep tab on the scope of textbooks read by the student and performance in assessment. Our vision is for Africa, but implementation has just commenced in Nigeria for secondary schools. Solutions for the tertiary institutions are also ready, but the content will be available by 2019,” he said. Corroborating his view, CEO, Edu Revamp Africa, Mr. Elvis Boniface said adopting technology is a must for the education sector in the 21st Century, if productive learning must take place. Boniface said there was need to change the teaching, training and research method in Nigeria following evolution of technology. According to him, the main purpose of education is to equip the young for tomorrow, and creativity is the only variable that could solve the problem of tomorrow. The post AfricLearn boosts learning with technology appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.