Sir, Abia state has a lot of human and material resources. The potentials in the state are so enormous that if well harnessed, the state will and should be the primus inter pares in the country. Unfortunately the state has not been able to be where it is supposed to be over the years not because of dearth of human and material resources but  because of lacuna in administrative husbandry in the past. The last regime in Abia state zoned the Governorship  in 2015 to Abia South in the spirit of equity and justice . That also reflected the Abia Charter of Equity..That , to me, was a wise decision which is in the spirit of what Igbos are clamoring for in Nigeria. The current Governor of the state Dr Okezie Ikpeazu is a beneficiary of that wise decision. Now coming to the performance of Dr Ikpeazu since the inception of his government, this can only be gauged by Abia people but my take on that is that despite the  post election legal distractions, Dr Ikpeazu has not done badly in husbanding the affairs of the state so far considering the resources that accrue to the state from the centre and the past circumstances of the state. So far positive structural and physical changes are taking place in Aba .Youth empowerment programmes are ongoing. Jobs are being created. That is what Abia state need now. My thinking is that Abia South should complete the conventional eight years before power moves to another zone of the state, While all Abians have the constitutional right to aspire to political positions, I think equity , justice and the reality on ground presupposes that the incumbent should be leveraged and supported to run through a second tenure. But of course the incumbent has to work harder in the months ahead to earn a second term. He has to prove his mettle as he is already doing .As he knows and we know it is ndoro ndoro and not nyere nyere. Yet am for his trajectory and re-election in 2019. • Chukwudi Ibegbulem is a public affairs analyst, wrote from Umuahia Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Guardian Nigeria Newspaper – Nigeria and World News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.