The Federal Government of Nigeria on Friday, March 30, released some names of officials of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that it said looted the treasury while the party was in power. The government was responding to a challenge by the spokesperson of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, in response to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who said the PDP administration carried out massive looting of the treasury in the 16 years it was in power. Mr. Ologbondiyan in a statement on Thursday accused Mr. Osinbajo of not being bold enough to mention names of those he claimed stole public funds. The Minister of Information, Mr. Lai Mohammed, who released the list during a press conference in Lagos on Friday, said the individuals include officials in the past government. The names in the list revealed by the Federal Government include PDP chieftains who are currently being tried for corruption and financial crimes. Find the list below and the allegations against them by the Federal Government… 1. PDP Chairman Uche Secondus. Allegation: On the 19th of Feb 2015, he took N200 million only from the office of the NSA. 2. Former PDP Financial Secretary. Allegation: On the 24th of Oct 2014, he took N600 million only from the office of former NSA. 3. Former National Publicity Secretary Olisah Metuh. 4. Dr Raymond Dokpesi, Chairman of DAAR Communications. On trial for allegedly taking N2.1 billion from the office of the former NSA. 5. Former SSA to President Goodluck Jonathan, Dudafa Waripamo-Owei On trial, over N830 million allegedly kept in accounts of four different companies. 6. Former President Goodluck Jonathan’s Cousin Robert Azibaola On Thursday, a Federal High Court ruled that he has a case to answer for allegedly collecting $40 million from the office of former NSA. The decision by the APC-led government to reveal the names of the alleged looters and the funds allegedly stolen is in response to the opposition party, PDP’s, challenge to the government to name those alleged to have looted the country and destroyed the economy. Mohammed said this list is just a tip of the iceberg, and the APC did not make these cases up as some of them currently have cases in court. “They are in court and the records are available. Some of the people on this list are seeking to plea bargain, and that is a fact. “We insist that Nigeria was looted blind under the watch of the PDP and that the starting point in tendering an apology is for them to return the loot,” he said. The post FG Releases Names Of PDP Leaders That Allegedly Looted Nigeria’s Treasury (Full List) appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.