Manchester City captain Vincent Kompany has urged his teammates to remain hungry and dominate for years to come. Manchester City are two wins away from lifting a third Premier League title in six years and are still in with a shout of going all the way in the Champions League. Vincent Kompany, who is now in his 10th season at the Etihad Stadium, insists that this is still the start of a long-term process that could see City win an array of major honours. “Today we see the first years of what probably [the owners] envisaged to do with the club,” he told The National. “And for me to be a part of the entire process is, I don’t know, there’s so much value to that. You leave a lot of blood, sweat and tears in the process. You want to be there for the good times. “So I’m really happy that my body, my mentality, has allowed me to still be here and perform and compete with these guys every single day. I enjoy that little bit more because of ten years at the club. Of course. Everything depends on the hunger of these guys. If they can keep that fire in the belly, that desire to improve and get better, there’s no limit to how good this team could be. “I have enough experience to know you have to wait until the next pre-season, when everybody’s had a bit of a holiday and bit of a celebration because you’ve won the league or something like this, and then see whether that hunger is still there. “You can see it in the eyes almost. So if next pre-season they come back and we go the same way and deliver the same attitude, then I will feel comfortable in what this team can achieve.” The post Vincent Kompany Challenges His Manchester City Teammates To Remain Hungry And Dominate appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.