Ohaneze Ndi-Igbo tha pan Igbo group has revealed that the dominance of northerners in every of Nigeria’s security apparatus is mostly responsible for the continued insecurity in the country. The group in a statement by its spokesperson Barrister Uche Achi-Okpaga lamented that security issues in the country was being treated with sentiments as all the security agencies presently in the country are headed by northerners. “Now every security agency is headed by the North, every military and para-military agency is headed by the North. Every anti-graft agency is headed by the North and virtually Fulani. “Why on earth would they not be sentimental? Are they not human beings? That is why we have severe insecurity all over the place because, at the top security echelon, there is no cross-fertilisation of inter-regional security initiatives. So, today, in a bid to sustain northern political hegemony, we are playing politics with security and Nigerians are killed in their tens and hundreds incessantly. “Until we restructure to address these imbalances and shelve the Federal Government of many items on the Exclusive Federal list and assign them to the states, Nigeria will remain like a stationary machine; all motion, no movement. “If we restructure Nigeria today, all the increasing agitations for self determination from Biafra, Ijaw, Oduduwa among others will subside appreciably,” it said. The group reiterated its earlier position that it was not interested in the presidency, but in the restructuring of the country and devolution of power. “Our interest is not on lgbo presidency but on good and purposeful, devolution of powers and respect for the lives and dignity of all individuals and tribes in Nigeria. “We have reiterated this severally that, by the current political architecture in Nigeria, Igbo Presidency without restructuring means little or nothing at all. Any quarter that intends to use 2023 lgbo presidency to assuage or hoodwink us is on a wild goose chase,” it said.    Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook