   Zlatan Ibrahimovic received a hero’s welcoming at the LA International Airport Friday as he touched down to resume his sojourn with MLS side LA Galaxy On hand to receive the Swede who is the club’s latest addition were club officials, fans and the mediaAn LA Galaxy press conference introducing Ibrahimovic will be held later Manchester United agreed to mutually part ways with  Ibrahimovic earlier this month, paving the way for the 36-year-old striker to complete his move to the west coast of America. He follows in the footsteps of former team-mates David Beckham and Andrea Pirlo, who also made the transatlantic switch, as well as Steven Gerrard and Frank Lampard. Ibrahimovic has won four domestic league titles during a glittering career to date which has seen him play for Barcelona and Paris Saint-Germain among others, after starting out at homeland club Malmo. The MLS season began earlier this month and Ibrahimovic is available to make his debut for his new club against city rivals LAFC on Saturday March 31 LA Galaxy captain Ashley Cole, formerly of Chelsea, has backed Ibrahimovic to adapt to life in MLS and become one of the top strikers in the league. “I think it’s great news to have a big personality, a big player not just for LA Galaxy, but certainly for the MLS to make this league even bigger,” said Cole. “Some people talk about the age, but for me it’s a great signing and hopefully the young lads here can learn off him. When asked what kind of impact Ibrahimovic will have, Cole added: “I think a big one. If he stays fit and gels quicker than some players have then I think he’ll be great. “I think he has every attribute to be one of the best strikers in the league and hopefully he can score some goals.”  The post Ibrahimovic gets LA Galaxy super welcome appeared first on The Nation Nigeria. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Nation NigeriaThe Nation Nigeria - App Feed. Click here to read the full text on the original website.