Sheesh, that was pretty tough to watch. Earlier this morning Steve Smith faced the music for a second time around, although now the exact details of the plan his team cooked up are known right around the world. Now I’ve enjoyed watching this team tear itself apart these past few days as much as (if not more than) most, but Steve Smith cracking under the glare of the spotlight was intense. A 12-month ban seems fair to me, and as I said this morning when he returns he will have paid his dues. The emotional scars, though, will probably remain forever. He’s pretty teary throughout, but at the 4:30 mark he really breaks down:  In case you’re wondering what that one question from the 3:20 mark was all about, you’re not alone. Cameron Bancroft also faced up to the cameras this morning, and you can watch his interview here, but one man has thus far failed to appear in front of the media. You guessed it – David Warner. All he could muster was banging out a quick Instagram / Twitter apology, which was hardly contrite,  before scurrying for the comfort of home and leaving his teammates to face the music. Smith and Bancroft will come back better, more well-rounded people, but Warner will always be a tosser. Speaking of tossers, news has just broken that Darren Lehmann has resigned. Here’s Cricinfo: Bye, Darren, and well done on helping to foster a team culture that has left your country hanging its head in shame. Of course there were tears for Dazza, too:  Right, let’s lighten the mood. Of course ‘Ozzie Man Reviews’ was going to get stuck into this one, so let’s see what he had to say:  How about Netflix taking the piss as well?  That’s quite enough cricket talk for now. Until tomorrow, when the fourth test starts in Jozi. Anyone else forget there’s still a test series going on? Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.