An aide of former President Goodluck Jonathan has accused President Muhammadu Buhari of undermining the war against Boko Haram. Omokri while reacting to President Buhari’s claim of swift response to the Dapchi school girls kidnap said it was Buhari who on June 3, 2013 said the “military offensive against Boko Haram is anti-North”. He said such direct statements emboldened the terrorists’. “After the Jonathan administration held an emergency National Security Council meeting on April 17, 2014, the Nigerian Army and Air force began searching for the Chibok girls with sorties being flown in search of the girls. “Let me remind Nigerians that one of the people who undermined the then administration’s anti-terror war was Muhammadu Buhari who on June 3, 2013 said the “military offensive against Boko Haram is anti-North”. I urge Nigerians to Google this direct quote to know their President better. He accused President Buhari of attending to conferences and ceremonies even in the wake of the Dachi school girls kidnap, whereas according to him, former President  Jonathan immediately called an emergency security meeting over the kidnap of the Chibok girls. “Between a President who calls an emergency meeting after Chibok and a President who canceled an important meeting so he could attend an economic conference, who can be described as looking the other way? “Which serious leader cancels the most important meeting in his nation at a time when Kaduna is facing ethnic and religious killings, Zamfara is facing mass killings by bandits, Benue, Plateau, Adamawa and Taraba are facing an onslaught from Fulani herdsmen and 110 girls were kidnapped in Dapchi? “When Yusuf Buhari had an accident, President Buhari canceled all his engagements and headed straight to the hospital. When the Dapchi Girls were kidnapped, the same President Buhari carried on as usual and went to Kano to go and dance and socialise at a Society Wedding! “After the Jonathan administration held an emergency National Security Council meeting on April 17, 2014, the Nigerian Army and Air force began searching for the Chibok girls with sorties being flown in search of the girls. “And again, the President lied when he said his administration “rescued” 100 Chibok Girls. The Chibok Girls were not rescued. As a matter of fact, they were released by Boko Haram after the alleged payment of huge ransoms and freedom of captured Boko Haram commanders by the Buhari administration. “Only two weeks ago, Shuaibu Moni, one of the Boko Haram commanders released by the Buhari administration went back to Sambisa Forest and released a video threatening Nigeria. “Who knows whether it was moneys allegedly paid as ransom to Boko Haram or individuals freed by the government that were used to facilitate the kidnap of the Dapchi Girls and the recent killings of United Nations staff in Rann,” he aid. He equally faulted Buhari’s claim of defeating Boko Haram even when it was evident that attacks by the group continued unabated. “Finally, can President Buhari, who claims to have defeated Boko Haram, tell the world how many people are killed Daily by Boko Haram under his regime as compared to the previous regime? “In the first ten weeks of 2018, Boko Haram killed 519 people in the Northeast. Only a patently dishonest leader can claim to have defeated Boko Haram with such numbers.”  Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook