Life is like a roller-coaster. In the beginning, it moves at a slow pace. Just when you start getting excited at the feel of the wind on your skin, it speeds up and has you fighting for your life. After what seems like forever, it slows down and reaches its end. This week was indeed a roller coaster. Here are the stories that made our week. “Sex and The City” to rule New York? After weeks of speculation, Sex and the City actress Cynthia Nixon announced her gubernatorial run on Twitter on Monday. As she explained in her first campaign ad, she believed it was time for the government to change. Nixon, 51, has long been an advocate for sexual harassment victims, a political activist, and an outspoken member of the LGBT community. Mo’Hits Reunion Tour The internet went wild when Don Jazzy hinted at a Mo’Hits reunion tour on his Instagram page. Recall that the group had made a surprise appearance at Davido’s 30BillionGang concert in December. We hope to hear D’banj’s harmonica, the trademark “it’s Don Jazzy Again” and the return of the other members of the group. Runtown In Trouble? Runtown was slammed with a court injunction for “deliberately breaching his contract”. His record label, Eric Many, alleged that he had been performing at shows, having collaborations and recording an album without their consent. They also claimed that they had not been given their royalties, asking him to pay the sum of N114,456,670 , which they claim was invested in the musician. Let’s hope he clears his name instead of running away from town.  Historic twitter win for Black Panther Twitter Movies has listed Black Panther the Most Tweeted Film of all time with a  a record shattering 35 million tweets, it tops Star Wars: The Last Jedi and Avengers: Infinity War. Here is their breakdown: fire, love and crown are the most tweeted emojis; #BlackPanther, #WakandaForever, #Wakanda are the most tweeted hashtags and the characters in Black Panther are #BlackPanther, #Killmonger, #Shuri.  Snoop Dogg Goes Gospel Dogg has released his highly anticipated album. The album, which is titled, Bible Of Love, features artistes such as Fred Hammond, Chance The Rapper, Tye Tribbett, Kim Burrell and Faith Evans. He explains that it has “always been in his heart” to dedicate an album to “God who knows everything”. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Guardian Nigeria Newspaper – Nigeria and World News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.