By Emman Ovuakporie THE  Audu/Faleke Political Organistion in Kogi State, yesterday, warned that the actions of Governor Yahaya Bello were capable of thwarting the reconciliation efforts of the Ahmed Tinubu-led presidential committee, alleging that the governor was fanning the embers of disunity within the state chapter of All Progressives Congress, APC. The campaign organisation in a statement by Senator Alex Kadiri, in Abuja, while charging the Tinubu committee to urgently focus on ending the differences among APC political gladiators in Kogi State, however, accused the state government of persisting in planting seeds of disunity in the party. Recently, the group said the governor was funding a parallel state party executive, an act it described as unconstitutional and capable of undermining the good intentions of the reconciliation committee set up by President Muhammadu Buhari. Kadiri stated that the group’s enthusiasm as belonging to the APC is “dampened by the assumption by most Nigerians that the issue in Kogi APC is merely between Governor Bello and Senator Dino Melaye. “We the stakeholders/elders and the state executive of the party does not believe in the way and manner the matters of governance and political activities are being conducted in Kogi State by Governor Bello, all of which are divisive and destructive.” He warned that the activities of the Kogi State Government constitute a threat to the cohesive survival of the APC, adding that such acts of belligerence and insubordination against this all-important presidential assignment from any quarters must be nipped in the bud. While commending Buhari in appointing Tinubu to head of the APC national reconciliation committee, the group said it saw the development as not only a step in the right direction, but a life saving measure at a time when the party is deeply enmeshed in crisis all over the country. “We want to state that as responsible and foundation members of the party, we are not averse to any efforts geared towards it’s well being, and this provides the reason why we made ourselves and our elders/all stakeholders available before two previous similar committees, and which the NWC of the party failed to implement its findings. “We however,  wish to state that we are not in doubt about the efficiency and capability of Asiwaju Tinubu, who we hold in high esteem and respect, and as such look forward to seeing him deploying his leadership wisdom into redirecting our party towards the path of peace and progress as we prepare for the next general elections.”   The post You’re fanning embers of disunity in APC, Audu/Faleke’s group tells Gov Bello appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.