With only nine #bbnaija Housemates left, the diary sessions on day 51 was a little more contentious and fiery than usual. Perhaps, the true colours of the housemates are slowly getting revealed, as the masks are starting to fall. There were many moments during the Diary Sessions that raised a few eyebrows but the award for the moat emotional goes to Nina for her complete meltdown. She is obviously frustrated and feeling the pressures of the game but her issue with Cee-C also drew her closer to the edge. Biggie did his best to console her but it was when he asked her to do a bit of self-reflection that the flood gates opened and she just let it all go. She feels she is immensely misunderstood by the other #bbnaija housemates and doesn’t know how they view her. Biggie told her she is here because she chose to be and that she needs to focus on the positive if she wants to move forward with the game. Cee-C had her fair share to say to Biggie too, it is clear that her and Nina, despite their differences, actually feel the same way – Confused and misunderstood. There was even a glimmer of remorse for Cee-C because she did say she feels bad about things that have been happening in the #bbnaija House of late. She asked Biggie how she could do better in the House and he told her that she needs to start communicating properly with her fellow #bbnaija Housemates and use curiosity as her method for redemption. Alex seems to have matured a lot during her time in the #bbnaija House but she has always spoken her truth unapologetically and without fear in the Diary Room. The night of day 51 was no different as she fully expressed herself. She was of the opinion that a lot of people in the #bbnaija house are completely fake and that she can see the true colours of her fellow housemates now. She expressed that people do one thing and say another and she also expressed her frustration with Nina, Cee-C and Rico. She said that she feels Rico keeps on trying with her and getting into her personal space and she is is not into it. While the ladies of the #bbnaija House were full of angst, it was the opposite for the guys who were very chilled calm and positive. BamBam appeared to be the only lady in the House that felt different, telling Biggie she felt happy and at peace. As the days go by, the game keeps intensifying but the main question still stands, how will everyone react when two of the Evicted Housemates return at the next live shows? The post #BBNaija 2018 Day 51: Emotional Diary Sessions appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.