The Bring Back Our Girls Group BBOG have threatened to take legal actions against the Federal Government if after seven days it does not rescue students of the Government Technical College, Dapchi, who were abducted recently by suspected Boko Haram terrorists. The group through its lawyer Femi Falana made the disclosure today in Abuja in one of its regular sit outs at the Unity Fountain. Addressing a press conference, Falana said it is intolerable that the same manner of abduction took place few years after the Chibok girls were kidnapped from their school in Chibok, in Borno state. He queried why there was no security for schools in the northeast region even in the face of the terrorists’ attacks. “Having regards to the circumstances of the development in that part of the country it is intolerable that the same manner of abduction took place. Are we being told that there was no security for those schools in the northeast region?’ he queried. “We are not just going to court to demand for the rescue of the girls; we are also going to demand for sanction because once you do not punish impunity, you are going to have criminality happen all over the place” he said. He queried why there was a withdrawal of soldiers from the region at the time when the attack occurred and wondered why the terrorists operated unhindered. “Now we are being told that a committee has been set up by the same people, it can only be to cover up. So if you want to challenge what has been done by now we expect the government to have fired those who are responsible and those 14 questions are very genuine. Particularly, who withdrew the forces on ground? To who was security handed over to and if nobody can provide answers, then people have to sanctions. So we are not just going to court to demand for the search for the girls we are also going to demand for sanctions,” he said.   Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook