The future of the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee, of the All Progressives Congress, remain uncertain due to the comments of president Muhammadu Buhari shortly before the commencement of the NEC meeting of the APC on Tuesday. Oyegun tenure was extended by one year following the adoption of a motion moved at the 4th NEC meeting of the APC for the extension of the tenure of all executives of the party across all levels. But President Buhari yesterday at the NEC meeting raised a question of the constitutionality of the decision. Nigeria Today source gathered that Buhari is adamant and would accept nothing less than the right thing. According to a source who spoke to us on condition of anonymity, the president wants APC to follow laid down rules of the party in line with the Nigerian constitution. The source stated that as a leader of the party, the president does not want to set a bad precedent “The president is very direct, follow the constitution, do the right and you will have my backing. You can not say that he is interfering, he is doing his duties as the leader of the party, you don’t expect him to sit down and watch this kind of unconstitutionality. “The party wants to perform better in 2019 and Buhari is trying to help the party achieved this. He started by appointing Tinubu to lead a reconciliation committee, and now he has advised the leaders of the party to prepare for national elective convention, this is in line with the constitution. “He is the president, he has received different intelligence report on this issue, and let me shock up anybody who challenges the decision of the NEC to elongate the Tenure of Oyegun led NWC in court will win because its a clear breach of the constitution. The president is saving the APC the same woes that befall the PDP- Ahmodu Sheriff.” Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook