Vocal Muslim group Muslim Rights Concern, MURIC has praised the attempts of former President Goodluck Jonathan for building al-majiri schools across the northern part of the country, but lampooned northern leaders for either misusing or not putting the structures into use. MURIC through its Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola said northern governors must be held responsible both for the misuse and disuse of those structures. According to him; “While we commend the Jonathan administration for building al-Majiri schools in some parts of the North, Northern governors must be held responsible both for the misuse and disuse of those structures. “Most of the al-majiri schools are lying fallow today while some have been converted to other uses. This is most unfortunate. The Buhari administration must also intervene by initiating a special project for the almajiranci.” “Recent studies have revealed that kids metamorphose from this ugly phenomenon to members of street gangs. “It is strongly suspected that many al-majiri children are now commanders in the dreaded Boko Haram insurgency.” He lamented that the al-majiri system has bred poverty, homelessness and hopelessness, a deviation from its initial objective. “Unfortunately the system has bread poverty, homelessness and hopelessness. It has produced a fi sabilillahi mentality plus an army of vagabonds and a battalion of bowl-carrying kids always roaming the streets aimlessly. It ends up breeding hunger, squalor and the resultant disease. “For example, in places like Azare, Bauchi, al-majiris tie bowls to their clothes and beg for just anything, anything at all. In places like Maiduguri, Borno State, they offer to carry bags for strangers and they are ready to assist in doing house chores for a whole day once a meal is guaranteed. Older al-majiris in Maiduguri area sell sachet water while some do scavenging and sell whatever they find to recyclers,” he said. He said in the final analysis, the blame rests squarely on Northern politicians dead and alive for failing to see the threat coming and for their inability to evolve a means of combating it and bringing it to a halt.   Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook