A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party in Oyo State and former Minister of Mines and Power, Wole Oyelese has told a former governor of the State, Rashidi Ladoja that the fortunes of the party in the state does not depend on him. Oyelese stated this on Wednesday while reacting to a threat by Ladoja to dump the PDP. According to Oyelese, Ladoja’s threat to leave the party unless things are done his way was a bad omen for the party, saying such display was as if the fortune of the party in the state was sorely depended on him. Oyelese wondered why Ladoja was taking such stand at a time the people were teeming up and looking up to the PDP to liberate them from the clueless administration and gruesome misrule of the APC in the state. He advised the PDP and Oyo people not to be bothered by the current threat as it may after all be a great blessing. “It is unfortunate that this is happening at a time when the teeming masses are looking up to the party, irrespective of party affiliation to liberate them from the clueless administration and gruesome misrule of the APC in the state. It is sad that an individual would now decide to start to threaten the party with his exit unless things are done his way as if the 2019 electoral fortunes of the party solely depend on him” He said “They should not be bothered by the current threat as it may after all be a great blessing. If Ladoja is prepared to be part of the collective leadership arrangement that would be put in place and which will by the grace of God resolve all outstanding issues, then he is still welcome in the PDP.  However, any attempt by him to lord it over the party and major stakeholders will definitely not work. “It is common knowledge in Oyo State that the overbearing attitude of Ladoja led to the refusal of former governor Adebayo Alao-Akala to rejoin the PDP. It was also responsible for the exit of Dele Adigun who had earlier joined the PDP through my intervention. One wonders what it will take Ladoja to take a critical look at his political style which also led to the decimation of the Accord Party,” He added Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook