World heavyweight champion Anthony Joshua has expressed confidence that he will knock out World Boxing Organization (WBO) champion Joseph Parker on March 31 in Cardiff, Wales. British boxer with Nigerian blood Joshua, 28, will put his World Boxing Association (WBA) and International Boxing Federation  (IBF) titles on the line when he squares up against New Zealand’s undefeated world heavyweight champion Parker. Aside from Parker, Joshua who is yet to taste defeat after 20 fights, is also touted to take on World Boxing Council (WBC) holder Deontay Wilder. As the 2012 British Olympic gold medalist prepares for his title defence, he said he is confident that all he has learnt in training will give him the edge. “Joseph Parker is dedicated and I’m going to see him at 50 per cent better than I have before,” Joshua told The Sun. “What I’ve learnt is that boxing is simplified when you incorporate your feet. Even though it’s a game of punching people, your feet get you in and out of range. “If I can transform what I’ve learnt in the gym for the last ten or 12 weeks to the ring, hopefully I can get him out of there between six and eight.” And when asked if he would seriously consider a crossover from boxing to Mix Martial Art (MMA), Joshua  said: “A good scrap would be with the guy from Congo [Francis Ngannou] who just lost recently. Big unit — that would be a good scrap. “Yeah of course, obviously I’d have to have a couple of warm up fights because you have to learn the submissions and stuff. “But, yeah, a fight is a fight at the end of the day. So yeah man, I’d do it.” The post Joshua Vows To Knock Out Parker, Considers MMA Switch appeared first on Complete Sports Nigeria. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Complete Sports Nigeria. Click here to read the full text on the original website.