Worried by the low rating of Nigeria’s effort to end corruption, the Federal Government has solicited the support of stakeholders, especially the National Assembly in tackling the menace in the country. To achieve this, the Federal Government has drawn a five-implementable national anti-corruption strategy plan, spanning 2017 through 2021, in order to achieve the objective. Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, disclosed this yesterday while declaring open a two-day Stakeholders’ Validation Workshop on anti-corruption in Abuja. He noted that the areas of fighting corruption put together by his ministry included prevention of corruption in public engagements, campaign for ethical re-orientation, as well as enforcement, sanctions, recovery and management of crime proceeds. Malami, who was represented by the Chairman, Technical Committee on the Implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy (NACS), Ladidi Mohammed, also disclosed that each of the pillars was focused on tripod levels of implementation. He added that the strategic plan was anchored on Federal Executive Council (FEC)’s directives and approval. Meanwhile, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha has called for synergy among the various arms of government to achieve national growth and socio-economic development. Speaking at the First Quarter 2018 edition of the Forum of the SGF with secretaries of state governments, in Yola, Adamawa State yesterday, he noted that Nigeria’s problems have no respect-for geographical boundaries or political affiliations. “We, therefore, require collective effort to surmount these challenges and to ensure peace, security, progress and prosperity for our people,” he said. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Guardian Nigeria Newspaper – Nigeria and World News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.