By Oboh Agbonkhese THE Federal Government has been told that corruption is result of wrong values and, therefore, charged to put in place institutional mechanism that will enforce ethics and selfless service across public and private sector in the country, as the right value system will produce good society and an awful value system, allowed to fester, will ultimately breed an unsustainable society. The Senior Pastor of Praise Arena, Kingdom Light Christian Centre, Pastor Jummy Adetoyese-Olagunju, made the charge while bemoaning the spate of inequality, corruption, nepotism, inequity and criminality which he said can only be addressed when the right value system is institutionalised. Speaking ahead of the church’s special praise night holding on Friday in commemoration of the Easter celebration in Lagos, Pastor Adetoyese-Olagunju commended Federal Government’s efforts in fighting corruption through the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, EFCC, noting that corruption goes beyond financial improprieties. His words: “It is a problem of wrong values that the people hold and exhibit in their daily lives. It is sad that many public office holders entrusted with public funds enrich themselves and members of their families with public funds and leave the people they are leading in penury, abject poverty and untold frustration.” He asserted that the Easter Celebration will continue to be a mere ritual and jamboree with the lessons from Jesus’ selfless sacrifice lost, “if we do not exemplify the values of sacrifice, love and honesty that Jesus truly represent.” He opined that most developed countries have institutionalised good moral values of sacrifice they live by in their homes, offices and public spaces. Adetoyese-Olagunju  charged the Church to use the Easter season as an opportunity to reach out to the poor, vulnerable, hopeless, frustrated and depressed people in the society. He added that “the Church will make an indelible ink in the sand of time if the Easter season is used to show love. I imagine the Church standing at the gate of prisons across the country, embracing prisoners who are set free and are ready to give the ex-convicts a new lease of life.” The post Corruption’s the result of wrong values—Cleric appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.