 This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com does not endorse nor support this product/service. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release. Coinseed ICO NYC, USA – New York based fintech startup Coinseed, announced today that its app – which lets users invest their spare change into crypto – has now launched globally. They also announced the ICO to start on March 20th which has 15% bonus for early investors who get whitelisted. Originally, Coinseed was founded when it became evident there was a huge audience interested in cryptocurrencies but those people found it hard to invest in crypto. They mostly wanted to invest small amounts initially to learn. “Many of our app users came to us seeking a solution that makes it child’s play to buy small amounts of cryptocurrency. We believe the Coinseed app delivers this seamlessly. So today we’re giving the whole world a chance to try what we’ve created” said co-founder Del Davaasambuu. The Coinseed app makes it very quick and simple to invest in most of the top cryptocurrencies. Setup takes less than five minutes to both fund an account and build a portfolio. One of the most unique features of the app is that a user is able to completely change their portfolio in seconds because there are no private keys, or digital wallets (it’s all held within the platform). This one feature alone extends Coinseed’s potential global market significantly – a market that is now downloading the app in large numbers. The Coinseed app solves two other critical pain points for many users – accessibility and security of funds. Many holders of cryptocurrency find converting crypto into physical cash challenging. Coinseed makes it incredibly easy to withdraw money. Security of funds can also be a significant issue – particularly for those less technologically literate. Coinseed uses identical security measures as Mint, Venmo, Acorns and Transferwise. It also uses the latest technology to secure the cryptocurrencies it holds – in multisig cold wallets. The Coinseed ICO has been designed to be a highly attractive proposition for investors. “We have rolled out a steady stream of new features in the app and have added a number of highly experienced advisors and team members. We are an actual business and we are already profitable. We believe the token configuration and offering make it a difficult combination to turn down”. Coinseed’s pre-ICO fundraising round came in at $200,000, and they are raising a further $10 million during their crowdsale beginning March 20th. Learn more about Coinseed’s ICO
Join Coinseed’s Telegram channel Contact Email Address
sukhbat@coinseed.co
Supporting Link
www.ico.coinseed.co This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release. The post PR: Breakthrough Crypto Investment App Coinseed Launches Globally and Announces Its ICO appeared first on Bitcoin News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Bitcoin News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.