By Abel Udoekene Former president Goodluck Ebele Jonathan says no matter how far and fast falsehood has traveled, it must eventually be overtaken by the truth. Jonathan stated this in response to an information he got that some faceless individuals were about carrying out a smear campaign against him in order to score cheap political points. Just recently, the vice-president Prof Yemi Osinbajo had accused Jonathan of sharing about N150 billion two weeks to the 2015 elections, but he has failed to provide evidence to back up his claims. Nigeria Today source gathered that former president Goodluck Jonathan had been quiet even with all the persistent trials of blame persecution under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, but he was swift to ask Osinbajo to provide evidence to back up his claims due to an intelligence report he received on a proposed smear campaign against him. According to the source who spoke to us on condition of anonymity, some powerful men in the presidency are trying to change the narrative now that the 2019 general election is fast approaching. One of their tactics is to use Jonathan as a bait to gather support for Buhari’s re-election. Meanwhile, Jonathan in a statement on his Facebook page has called on his supporters to remain calm, maintaining  that his ambition does not worth the blood of any Nigeria. “It has been brought to my attention that while I am away promoting democracy in Sierra Leone, a campaign will be unleashed against me to falsely impugn my name using both faceless and identified persons, “When I was in power I said my ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian. Even out of power, I continue to hold that belief. “What I will say however, is that no matter how far and fast falsehood has traveled, it must eventually be overtaken by truth.” Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook