Marcos Alonso has revealed that his Chelsea teammate Alvaro Morata was disappointed with not being given a place in the latest Spain squad. Alvaro Morata has scored just once for Chelsea since the start of 2018, with that goal coming during the Blues’ 2-1 victory over Leicester City in the FA Cup on Sunday. However, it was not enough for Morata to be selected in the group to face Germany and Argentina, and Alonso has said that his compatriot was “not happy” with being left in West London. At a press conference, the 27-year-old told reporters: “Alvaro wasn’t happy. He’s gone through a couple of difficult months because of a back problem. He’s at 100%, he got back to scoring the other day. “I hope he helps us at the end of the season. He’s really important and I hope he’s at the World Cup.” Marcos Alonso has a good chance of earning his first senior Spain cap in the next fortnight after being overlooked by Lopetegui despite his role in Chelsea’s title-winning team of 2017. But the defender insisted he isn’t concerned with getting his first call-up to La Roja late, only on now getting to know his teammates and adapting to the team’s style of play. “Whether it’s late or not, the important thing is that I’m here,” Alonso added. “I’m grateful. I tried not to think too much about it. “My focus was on doing well at Chelsea and this was a welcome surprise. This is a reward for the work I’ve done in recent years. I was training when I found out. I went in the locker room and all of my team-mates congratulated me. I’m thrilled and looking forward to this experience. “I’m very focused on the next two friendlies and on adapting to the team. “I’m eager to train and to add to this squad. More than an exam, I see this as an opportunity. I think the coach knows me well from my time at Castilla. “It’s a chance to prove myself and for me to adapt quickly to the side and hopefully, to return to the national team more times.” The post Alvaro Morata Not Happy With Omission From Spain Squad- Marcos Alonso appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.