The Borno state command of the Nigerian police has sent a warning message to residents of Maiduguri of an impending Boko Haram attack in the state. Borno State Commissioner of Police Mr. Damien Chukwu who issued the statement late last night said the terrorists have concluded plans to attack populated/crowed areas to maximize casualty through the use of vehicles fully primed with Improvised Electronic Devices IEDs. “The Borno state police command in collaboration with “Operation Lafiya Dole” high command wishes to draw the attention of the general public  that information at the disposal of the theatre command reveals that dislodged and rampaging Boko Haram terrorists have concluded arrangements to attack  parts of maiduguri metropolis notably, populated/crowed areas to maximize casualty through the use of vehicles fully primed with IEDs. Consequently, security forces have adequately deployed resources to counter and frustrate this evil plan of the heartless terrorists,” he said. In the statement, the CP while assuring residents of the preparedness of the force to counter any such attacks, it called on residents of the state to promptly alert security personnel of any suspected person(s), suspicious movement, vehicles, objects, etc for prompt action. “The command therefore, wishes to call upon Borno people and the public at large to promptly alert security personnel of any suspected person(s), suspicious movement, vehicles, objects, etc for prompt action. Be rest assured that such information and informants would be treated with utmost confidentiality. Finally, with the renewed commitment of the theatre command leadership and all security agencies the general public is once again reassured of the determination of security forces to protect lives and property,” he assured.   Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook