For the best part of a year, we have been telling you about the many sustainable benefits of choosing homegrown, naturally-modified wood as opposed to endangered hardwoods. And we know that Capetonians, specifically, have been a tad frustrated because the company that produces the future-conscious real wood does not have a local office. Well, Rhino Wood realised this and, to get their name in the Cape Town wood game, opened a regional Cape Town office that gives them capacity to service the entire Western Cape region. Representing the company is local Shane Smith. Andrew Prior, Rhino Wood Sales and Marketing Director, is looking forward to the future: Lekker – and welcome! Now is the time to act if you are considering building a wooden structure. Let me explain why. 100% natural, locally sourced, sustainable and free from harmful chemicals, modified Rhino Wood is suited to outdoor and indoor applications including decking, jetties, docks, cladding, walk and stairways and bigger timber constructions where laminated beams are required. It also offers enhanced durability, dimensional stability, longevity and water, rot and insect resistance and left to nature gradually weathers into a beautiful grey patina. Rhino Wood is available in various sizes and finishes to suit different applications and requirements; custom sizes are available on request. Below are a few examples of their work:    Commenting on the expansion, Scott Sargent, Rhino Wood’s Technical Director made sure to highlight Rhino Wood’s ability to provide a faster and more accessible service to a range of local clients: Intrigued? Have a space in your house that would love a touch of sustainable Rhino Wood? Thought so. Get in touch by checking out their website. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.