Exasperated and angered by the loss of lives in his immediate community and across Nigeria, respected retired military head General Theophilus Danjuma threw down the gauntlet on March 24. He doubted the neutrality and impartiality of the Nigerian defence forces. He then asked citizens to defend themselves against all the militias responsible for the mass killings across the land. Danjuma stated while speaking at the 10th anniversaryand graduation ceremony of Taraba State University in Jalingo: “The armed forces are not neutral. They collude with the armed bandits that kill people, kill Nigerians. They facilitate their movement. They cover them.If you are depending on the armed forces to stop the killings, you will die one by one. The ethnic cleansing must stop in Taraba State. It must stop in all the states of Nigeria. Otherwise, Somalia will be a child’s play. I ask every one of you to be at alert and defend your country, defend your territory, defend your state. You have nowhere else to go”. The Nigerian Army and the Federal Government quickly responded. Speaking through the Minister of Defence, the Federal Government dismissed Danjuma’s statement as an invitation to anarchy. Colonel Tukur Gusau, speaking for Defence Minister Mansur Dan-Ali, said, “This is highly uncalled for and is an invitation to anarchy and should be disregarded by well-meaning Nigerians”. He added, “The efforts of the Nigerian military towards the restoration of peace, security and order in Nigeria are evidently clear, and Nigerians continue to show appreciation for changing the security environment from what it was before. The armed forces is well organised and highly professional in discharging its constitutional mandate. “Therefore, if anyone has evidence of wrongdoing or dereliction of duty against our troops, (the person) should please bring forward such evidence through the channel for necessary action.” The Army issued two statements on the matter within 24 hours. The first, signed by Brigadier General John Agim, was conciliatory, voicing regard for the former Chief of Army Staff and ex-Defence Minister and affirming the commitment of the Army to best practice. In the second, Brigadier General Texas Chukwu, Director of Army Public Relations, confirmed the constitutional role of the Army in defending Nigeria’s territory and supporting civil authority. It said soldiers have died in the course of duty in Taraba State. The Army added, “It is noteworthy to state that at the inception of Ex AYEM AKPATUMA, the Taraba State Government, did not cooperate with the Nigerian Army due to the Army’s stance to remain absolutely neutral in the herdsmen-farmers crisis.  The Nigerian Army will continue to remain as such. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Nigerian Army advises the people of Taraba State,and indeed all other Nigerians to continue in their day-to-day activities and be law-abiding as anyone caught with arms and ammunition will be dealt with in accordance with the laws of the land.” The security situation in most parts of North East Nigeria is a source ofgrave concern. Violence and killings are the typical features of news from that part of Nigeria. Add the depredations of Boko Haram and the many inter-ethnic wars centred on possession of land or other economic assets. In 2018 alone, there have been reports of hundreds of killings across five states, including Benue, Kogi, Adamawa, Zamfara, Kaduna and Taraba. There have also been incidents in Yobe. There have been clashes between herdsmen and farmers. No fewer than 100 persons fell to the bullets and ammo of herdsmen in Benue villages beginning January 1, 2018. The Benue killings created severe political tension between the Federal authorities and the Benue State Government. Governor Samuel Ortom led what seemed like a revolt against the Federal Government, the Nigeria Police Force and his party, the ruling All Progressives Congress, over their handling of the matter. There have also been clashes in Taraba with several deaths in the Mambilla Plateau region and other battles in the state. Enter General T.Y. Danjuma. The exchange between the military forces and their erstwhile leader only confirms that Nigeria stands at a critical crossroad on the matter of internal security and the handling of the herdsmen menace across the land. It bespeaks a breakdown in communication and esprit de corps. It is more so that Danjuma heads a significantGovernment initiative on peace in the North East. Moreover, the narrative before nowhad been that the violent herdsmen are non-Nigerians and criminals from outside our shores. It is strange, therefore, to hear the Nigerian Army speak of “absolute neutrality” on the issue. TY Danjuma is the third in the class of retired generals to raise the alarm. It is saddening that a senior citizen such as Danjuma feels compelled to resort to intemperate talk to draw attention.  We call on the Federal Government to treat the matter of the clashes between herdsmen and farmers as a national emergency. The task before the Government is to do whatever it takes to end the conflicts today. Delay is dangerous, and nothing else should matter now. The post SOS on security and the Danjuma clarion call appeared first on BusinessDay : News you can trust. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from BusinessDay : News you can trust. Click here to read the full text on the original website.