Anthony Joshua’s promoter Eddie Hearns believes Joseph Parker’s laid-back approach ahead of Saturday night’s unification fight in Cardiff would make the New Zealander very dangerous. Brtish-Nigerian world heavyweight champion Joshua faces arguably the toughest clash of his career in Cardiff as he looks to add Parker’s World Boxing Organization (WBO) belt to his World Boxing Association (WBA) and International Boxing Federation (IBF) titles straps in front of his own fans at the Principality Stadium in Cardiff, Wales. Neither fighter has ever been defeated in a professional fight with Joshua winning all his 20 fights via knockouts while Parker has gone 24 with losing During a debate on the upcoming bout with Parker’s promoter David Higgins on Sky Sports show Promoters Go Off, Hearn said he does not necessarily believe the pressure will weigh on Parker judging by his approach in the build up. “As we draw nearer, it’s like, someone’s getting knocked out in this fight,” Hearn said. “This is a great fight. On our side, we don’t see any other result other than an Anthony Joshua win by knockout. “I think Joseph is dangerous and the one thing I’m really looking forward to is how he will embrace the occasion. He’s never walked out into anything like this before. “I think one of the dangers for AJ is, Joseph’s very laid-back, he doesn’t seem that bothered. I think he’s actually going to have fun. “That’s going to make him dangerous in this fight because he’s not going to come all stiff and tense, I think he’s going to enjoy it. “David said when we were negotiating, Joseph likes to have a good dance before his fight. I sort of said, ‘What do you mean?’. “He likes to invite all his friends in, all his old school mates and they do some kind of New Zealand or tribal dance. “I thought, this guy, he’s up for this, he’s going to enjoy it. That is a danger for Anthony Joshua because you almost want the other guy to fold under the pressure.” Hearn went on to dismiss talks about Joshua having a soft chin and his lack of mental strength. “David has been very vocal in saying Anthony is not mentally strong but I have to say I think he’s one of the most mentally strong sportsman I’ve ever seen,” he added. “We’ll see on March 31, one how good Joseph Parker is and two how mentally strong he is. “They talk about his chin as well not being with the quality of opposition as AJ has. Although saying that, outside of Klitschko, David’s got a good point. Fairly similar. “I just feel Anthony Joshua is another level to Joseph Parker but that doesn’t mean you can rule this guy out.” The post Joshua Promoter Hearn Wary Of Parker Approach Ahead Of Title Bout appeared first on Complete Sports Nigeria. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Complete Sports Nigeria. Click here to read the full text on the original website.