MANCHESTER EVENING NEWS Manchester United are targeting five signings in summer transfer window as Jose Mourinho prepares to ship six players out.
Romelu Lukaku’s value has almost doubled since his £75m move to Manchester United.
Jorginho has revealed he is a big fan of the Premier League after being watched by Manchester United and a host English clubs.
Isco has put Manchester City on alert after revealing his frustrations at Real Madrid.
Andrea Belotti has addressed the latest transfer talk surrounding his future, saying he will only consider options that guarantee him first-team football. LIVERPOOL ECHO
Amid links with Everton, Paulo Fonseca is staying focused on Shakhtar Donetsk despite admitting there have been ‘invitations’ from other clubs.
Jurgen Klopp and Bayern Munich “would fit”, according to the Liverpool manager’s agent – but insists his work at Anfield is not yet finished and expects him to see out his contract with the club.
Liverpool have been warned to brace themselves this summer for interest surrounding Roberto Firmino. LONDON EVENING STANDARD
Arsenal have added Germany midfielder Kerem Demirbay to the list of players they may seek to sign this summer.
Fulham striker Aleksandar Mitrovic’s fine form for club and country is set to earn him a move to “an even bigger, better” side this summer, according to Serbia head coach Mladen Krstajic.
Lucas Moura says Sunday’s London derby against Chelsea is the reason why he moved to Tottenham.
This season was supposed to be about consolidation for Millwall but promotion is now a realistic target and Neil Harris is hungry to lead the club into the Premier League for the first time.
Marcos Alonso insists he remains fully focused on Chelsea and has not considered leaving the club amid speculation about his future. NEWCASTLE CHRONICLE
Mikel Merino has revealed his hunger to be involved from the start in Newcastle United’s crunch home clash with Huddersfield Town.
Adam Armstrong admits he will “assess the situation” at Newcastle United this summer before deciding on what should be the next step in his career. BIRMINGHAM MAIL
Birmingham City have been linked with a summer move for Leeds United’s attacking midfielder Pablo Hernandez. HULL DAILY MAIL
Norwich City are understood to want £25m for James Maddison to depart the club this summer.
Former Hull City head coach Marco Silva is reportedly being lined up to take over at West Ham United this summer. BOURNEMOUTH ECHO
Bournemouth are reportedly set to battle Brighton for the services of Celtic winger Scott Sinclair this summer.
Eddie Howe believes there could be a season where every Premier League club changes its manager. NOTTINGHAM POST
Aitor Karanka has made it abundantly clear he is the boss at the City Ground – and restored a degree of respect to the manager’s office. IPSWICH STAR
Ipswich Town owner Marcus Evans has revealed a decision on Mick McCarthy’s future will be made public before April 30.
Ipswich Town are in the hunt for prolific Wimbledon striker Lyle Taylor, according to reports. HUDDERSFIELD EXAMINER
Aaron Mooy faces a race against time to be fit for Huddersfield Town’s crucial Premier League clash with Newcastle United at the weekend. WEST LONDON SPORT
Alan Judge scored for Brentford’s B team in a 3-0 win over Chelsea’s development side, whose goalkeeper Nicolas Tie was carried off on a stretcher. The post Football Papers: All The Latest Football News And Transfer Gossips This Evening appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.