Besides her captivating acting and outstandingly flawless depiction of the characters handed to her, not on a silver platter but as fruit of her hard work and artistry, Adesua Etomi’s presence in the Big Brother Naija House was so captivating that the Housemates couldn’t help but be taken by her rock solid aura. Clearly fans of her craft, they screeched and screamed, unable to contain their excitement; their afternoon had just gotten better. In Awe Of Greatness Like no other, Adesua made the Housemates comfortable with her presence by letting them know that she wasn’t different from any of them, she was just given an opportunity to do what she loves and is succeeding in it. Their eventual ease was evident in how lead by Tobi, they showed her around their home and made her feel like one of them. After the tour and when the Housemates had fully digested the fact that they had been graced by her presence, they all settled in the lounge and had quite a meaningful conversation. Feast off of Goodness Adesua indirectly addressed all of the issues that have brought bitterness into the House and when asked about how she handles the success and sometimes unnecessary full blown attention, she mentioned that her age has never been a deciding factor in the trajectory of her career as she only got her big break in 2013, during her late 20s; furthermore, she neutralises hate with love and finds solace in the fact that there are more people that appreciate her craft than those that find fault in it. Basically, she feeds of the good and learns from the bad. Love and Not War Another issue that she ironed out without mentioning what she’s observed thus far was the hate. After the Housemates mentioned bullying and biased behaviour as some of the things they absolutely loathed, she told everyone that no one was above another and that it is okay for them to have differences however, it was better to manage their anger and curb their hunger to quarrel.
She advised them to not fear the unknown and assured them that it’s okay to create relationships, fall in love and let themselves go without forgetting who they are and where they come from. The Housemates clearly appreciated the visit and as a token of their appreciation and in true African fashion, they packed her a take away lunch. We’re pretty sure the Housemates would have loved to ask Adesua about their profiles and how they’re being perceived by the public, especially considering the fact that the advice she gave was almost completely applicable to them all; but as she’d highlighted, it’s okay to not know everything and we absolutely concur. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook