A governorship aspirant on the platform of the People Democratic Party in Oyo state, Seyi Makinde has begged a former governor of the state, Rashidi Ladoja not to dump the party. In a statement signed by Dotun Oyelade on his behalf, Makinde pleaded with Ladoja to reconsider his decision to dump the PDP and reminded him of his desire for a change of leadership at the center. Makinde noted that such a decision will leave the people confused as the majority of party members and indeed the masses in the state are already excited about the prospect of genuine regime change that will fulfill its electoral promises and respect institutions and elders. Makinde appealed to the National Working Committee of the PDP to ensure an all-inclusive state executive to avoid going to war with a divided army. The statement reads: “I am privileged to be referred to as one of your political sons and which you confirmed on the radio programme two days ago. Therefore as a true son of a valiant father, I hereby humbly but strongly appeal to you not to contemplate leaving the house that we are jointly trying to roof, just before the rainy season. “Such a decision, coming from a tested leader will leave the people confused as the majority of party members and indeed the masses in the state are already excited about the prospect of genuine regime change that will fulfill its electoral promises and respect institutions and elders. “The issue of harmonisation of party executives which is being blown out of proportion appears to be the most realistic arrangement to actualise our objective because political expediency narratives are determined by circumstances on the ground. “It became imperative for the National Working Committee to ensure an all-inclusive state executive is put in place to avoid going to war with a divided army. Like others, who desire positive change via the PDP under your leadership in the state, I strongly believe no single tendency can do it all alone,” Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook