By Luminous Jannamike ABUJA – The National Arbovirus and Vectors Research Centre (NAVRC) has said it is currently working to bring about a sustained and active nationwide surveillance of infectious disease vectors starting in three North-Central states of Benue, Nasarawa and Niger. Speaking at the end of a training workshop for State Disease Vector Surveillance Officers, the Coordinator of the centre, Dr. Emeka Asadu, said: “Our immediate aim is to reach a total of nine additional states by the end of 2018 and 24 States by December 2019. “By active surveillance of disease vectors, we will be providing early warning systems that will enable other responsible agencies of government and NGOs to take preemptive action to forestall the outbreak of serious infectious diseases like Yellow fever. In addition, information obtained from routine vector surveillance will support ongoing efforts to control and eliminate endemic vector borne diseases like malaria. “The just concluded training aimed to provide skilled state-level manpower for active surveillance of vectors of diseases of public health importance in Nigeria. We are immensely grateful to the Hon. Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole. It was only on the account of his uncommon support and encouragement that the centre is able to conceive and proceed with the implementation of this initiative,” he added. Vanguard reports that NAVRC is the research unit of the Federal Ministry of Health which provides valuable information for effective response to and control of arthropod borne viral infections like Yellow fever and other important endemic vector borne diseases like malaria.  The post NAVRC targets active surveillance of disease vectors nationwide appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.