By Abel Udoekene Imagine living in a country where everything is politicized. A country where either the ruling party or the opposition party will try to score a cheap political point with every inch of tears or smile that run through your face. Imagine spending 4 -7 years in the university, only to be told “to fuck off” because your name is not attached to any known name or prospect in history. I cannot begin to imagine that the labour of our heroes past is slowly being put to shame by our oppressors who lither our mind with the political message of hatred, segregation, ethnicity, and tribalism. I cannot even stand the shame that a state and a federal government agency told me a few months ago that they were not recruiting, only to discover that they are recruiting hundreds of people every day through the back door. When I approached them to seek answers, the response I got was sad “Young man, you must know someone, you can’t work in the civil service if you don’t know someone, I think it is only a few people who are here, not up to 15% that came in through the right channel” Every day, I kept asking myself where do we go wrong? Every day millions of Nigerians troupe into Churches and Mosque yet the situation keep getting worse. When I was young, I was told Individuals can make a difference in others’ lives, by providing opportunities for all. But this cannot be achieved without love, peace, and truth. Dear oppressor, I am writing to tell you to stop.  Stop manipulating us all in the name of politicking, stop running a government of favoritism, stop the corruption that you have enshrined in our civil service. I hope you can think first before you take your next move, Enough is Enough. About the Author Abel Udoekene is a social media Strategist, and a political analyst. You can contact him via princeabelekene@gmail.com      Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook