 Following the Nigerian Economic Summit (NESG) #23 Startups pitching event held recently, Accenture Nigeria has expressed its readiness to mentor eight selected tech entrepreneurs chosen by a team of investor experts for startups. The eight tech entrepreneurs are L&L Foods, Accounteer, My Padi, Academix, Piggy Bank, Insight Africa, Ojoro Kitchen and Edusko. Speaking at a parley in Lagos, Managing Director of Accenture Nigeria, Niyi Yusuf, said: “For us, we will work with the top eight for us to come together as a group and officially commence the mentor process, we want to reflect the seriousness that we put to this. Beyond being our way of giving back, it is a reverse mentor process.  So for me as a person, I’m learning from my two mentees whom I’m currently working with.” For us at Accenture, he said: “We have noticed the growing culture of entrepreneurship. Some of us have taken the salary line and there are others who have taken the entrepreneurial course. “If NESG have come up with refined ideas of startups, I suspect they have a better chance of surviving and excelling because they have gone through some training and perhaps Accenture can support in some funds and help accelerate the progress to success. And so we signed up to the eight and we felt it would be nice.” In his remarks, Senior Fellow, Public Policy, NESG, Dr. Tayo Aduloju, said NESG is at the success story of mentoring, custodians of legacy of leaders that transcended us. Aduloju explained that mentoring is the transfer of wisdom, insight to competencies and so as we look at the country, it is impossible to grow without entrepreneur spirit. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Guardian Nigeria Newspaper – Nigeria and World News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.