Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola has assured the governor of Akwa Ibom state, Mr Udom Emmanuel of the Federal government commitment to provide infrastructures to boost Akwa Ibom state Industrial drive. The Minister stated this when he paid a courtesy visit to the governor of Akwa Ibom State at the government house, Uyo. The minister who is in Akwa Ibom state for 2018 Power Summit, praised the effort of the governor for his numerous industrial strides and  development, according to Fashiola “this is the way  to grow the economy and create prosperity and opportunities for our people.” He commended the state government  for providing land for the on-going National Housing Pilot Project and announced that the recently damaged substation transformer at Afaha Ube, Itam will be replaced, with the capacity raised from 120MVA to 180MVA. “We count on this continued collaboration and we also are working to improve customer service at the last mile because all of these transmission, generations really means nothing to our people unless it translates to electricity.” Fashiola said. While responding to the minister, the governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel admitted that his administration has completed an injection power station along Edet Akpan Avenue in the heart of the capital city, and has just completed a substation at the airport which had hitherto been on 24 hours of generating plant energy.  “I know today, when you are talking about power and the efforts of the state governments in this country, I think Akwa Ibom will rank Number one” he said. He appealed to the Minister for approval of a 90MV transformer lying idly in the state, according to Mr Udom Emmanuel  if approved that alone can give power to at least 6 local government areas on a 24/7 basis. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook