The Reset was like a cargo plane with loads of drama in transit and we think the week’s theme should be reconsidered. Yes the Housemates are learning to survive but the drama seems to hover way above their survival skills. From Anto and Khloe’s unexpected return to spicy confessions during the dice game and now a heated argument between Nina and Cee-C that stemmed from absolutely nothing, the Housemates might just need a ninja to babysit them because their claws can’t get any sharper than they are now. Not On My Plate Apparently, Nina ate from Cee-C’s plate and upon realising this, she told Nina she could have the rest of it as she was clearly annoyed by the act and found it quite disrespectful. The whole thing went from conversation to disagreement to brawl real quick. While Nina clearly took it as a joke, Cee-C was utterly infuriated by it all and they started screaming at each other. Just as she had done with Alex, Cee-C insulted Nina, calling her stupid and useless amongst other things. Nina wasn’t as silent as she usually was though because in her own unconventional way, she defended herself and threw in a few verbal punches in there too. Futiloe Mediation Khloe did try to mediate, arguing that there was no need for the two to address each other so disrespectfully but that too proved ineffective and the brawl turned into Khloe VS Cee-C. The surprising thing however is how Cee-C’s attitude changed when dealing with Khloe, it’s like she’d lowered a volume a little bit and swallowed the insults. This small detail may further emphasise the fact that the other Housemates find it easier to hover over Nina. According To History The Housemates had their luxury time snatched from them when Biggie handed them the day’s Task and judging by their overall demeanour pre-Task, they weren’t completely for it, so the bad moods and snappy attitudes could have started from there.It was clear from the onset that Nina and Cee-C weren’t the best of friends and judging by Cee-C’s superiority complexes and Nina swimming in her inferiority, the two were bound to clash on more occasions than one. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook