Rick Ross believes that the Christian Gospel Mission is the “single most dangerous cult in Australia”. No no, I am not talking about the rapper Rick Ross, but rather a US cult expert who was hired by the creators of Far Cry 5 to help their team create a fictional cult. It was at the media briefing for the game that VICE made contact with Ross, and spoke to him about what the year 2018 holds for cults across the world: But the common factor, regardless of whether the group is old or new, is that they have been built around a charismatic individual. That’s certainly the case for Christian Gospel Mission, previously known as Providence and Jesus Morning Star (JMS). Please take a look at Christian Gospel Mission’s website here, although it’s all in Korean.  The followers of Christian Gospel Mission, which began in South Korea in 1980, firmly believe that their founder, Jung Myung-Seok [above], is the second coming of Christ. But get this: Myung-Seok has spent the last 10 years in jail for rape. One person who fell victim to the cult’s recruitment in Australia is a woman named Liz, who was approached by a “woman with a big smile” while at a shopping centre in Canberra. The woman asked Liz if she was a model, and if she would care to fill out a form. Fast forward three years later, and Liz had to be saved from the cult by none other than Ross: Here’s a look inside the cult back when it was called Providence, including an interview with Liz and another woman:  Now, several years after the fact, Ross believes that Christian Gospel Mission is the single most dangerous cult in Australia: Things aren’t looking too good for Australia at the moment, hey? [source:vice] Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.