Former president, Goodluck Ebele Jonathan says the rehashed lies by vice-president Yemi Osinbajo should be disregarded by Nigerians and advice Osinbajo to provide evidence to back up his claims and proved him otherwise. In a statement signed by his media aide, Reno Omokri, Jonathan said as a Professor of law, Osinbajo out to know that he who alleges must provide proofs. “My attention has been drawn to rehashed lies in the media by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, against the person of former President Jonathan. “On this most recent allegation by Vice President Osinbajo, let me state categorically that former President Jonathan did not share N150 billion two weeks to the 2015 election. If Professor Osinbajo has proof that former President Jonathan did so, then we challenge him to publish his proof. He is a professor of law and ought to know that he who alleges must prove.’’ the statement reads. The statement went on to exposed perpetual lies by the vice-president, Yemi Osinbajo; according to the statement, Osinbajo lied on October 20, 2017, in Anambra, where he said that the present administration had paid $2 billion for the second Niger Bridge, but it was later proved that the money released was N2 billion and it came from the Sovereign Wealth Fund set up by the Jonathan administration which the APC resisted and challenged in court. The statement in part: “Even after Jonathan left office, it is still monies that he left behind that the Buhari administration is using. It will also be recalled that in February 2016, the Vice President again lied when he claimed that both the Jonathan and Yar’ Adua governments did not build a single road. ‘’This fact was easily disproved when even members of this administration, including Osinbajo’s boss, President Buhari, began commissioning projects, including roads built by the Jonathan administration. ‘’Some of the roads either built or rebuilt by the Jonathan administration include the Benin-Ore portions of the Benin-Lagos Road, the Vom-Manchok Road, the Kano-Zaria Road Bridge (named after late Emir Ado Bayero) and many more. “The Jonathan administration budgeted and spent over $10 billion on infrastructure in the five years between May 6, 2010 and May 29, 2015. The single most expensive and valuable project built in Nigeria in the last 20 years is the $1.8 billion Abuja-Kaduna 187 kilometres super-fast railway that enables Nigerians work in Abuja and live in Kaduna. This project was built and completed by the Jonathan administration. “Also, former President Jonathan revived Railways in five of the six geo-political zones and restored direct rail services from Lagos to Kano, Port Harcourt to Maiduguri and Makurdi to Gombe. “In contrast, the Buhari administration, which in less than three years, has borrowed more money than the PDP borrowed in 16 years, cannot point to even one major project they have started and completed. Both President Buhari and Vice President Osinbajo keep accusing the Jonathan administration of being corrupt and claim that they run an anti-corruption government. “If this is true, how come Nigeria made her best ever improvement in Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index under former President Jonathan in 2014 when we moved 8 places forward from 144 to 136 and why have we made our worst ever retrogression in the Corruption Perception Index under President Buhari, moving 12 places backward from 136 to 148 in 2018? “The truth is that Vice President Osinbajo continues to make these discredited comments because he is a man promoted above his competence,” Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook