The #bbnaija Housemates have discovered with time that every single one of them entered Biggie’s House at their own emotional risks and with about six weeks into the season, families, friends and freedom have started to be missed. It has gone for so long, so much so that if it wasn’t for Biggie’s constantly keeping them on their toes, some of the #bbnaija Housemates would have had a much harder time. While the bonding and reshuffling of pairs has tightened relations, even the toughest in the house have begun to crack. As a way of lightening up the mood in the #bbnaija house and maybe because that is who she is, Alex chose to shake the tension away, and got everyone to follow her freestyle dancing. Soon enough, the dance out turned out into some kind of group dance therapy, the likes of which offered a much welcome relief for all the housemates and they pretty much owed the morale boost to Alex and the great moves she engineered. As for Anto it came out that she was as loved as feared by her peers. Earning the love of her pairs in the #bbnaija house was no small feat, especially given the amount of Double Wahala available, but earning the fear has come in the same package. Neither seems inseparable from Anto’s legendary mystery. Just when the #bbnaija Housemates loss another wager, and were still reconciling with the news mentally, Biggie boosted their morale by announcing that Team Blue had won the Presentation and secured mentorship, seed money and much more to help it develop its app. This was one thing that some of the #bbnaija housemates needed and they couldnt wait to enjoy the treat and rewards that came along with the effort they put in for the win. The post #BBnaija 2018 Day 41: Biggie Switches Things Up appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.