The debate on Nigeria’s future continued yesterday, with the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) declaring that this country cannot survive without the North. ACF is the North’s apex socio-cultural group. It is seen as its voice. ACF Chairman Ibrahim Coomassie stated this when the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Forum received leaders of the foremost northern women socio-cultural organisation, Jam’iyya Matan Arewa (JMA), in Kaduna. According to The Nation, the one-time Inspector General of Police said: “We all know that without the North, Nigeria can never survive. We still stand by it. But now is the time to walk the talk in the interest of our people. “Chibok girls are still missing. Now it has gone to Dapchi in Yobe State. What happened? Are we always going to be the victims? Boko Haram; see what they did to the Northeast. They have spread over to the Northcentral and even to the southern part of the country. “Should we continue to be regarded in the negative side? No. We are leaders in our own right and we must exercise this responsibility for our people”. “Whenever there is crisis, women and children are always the major victims. Enough is enough. Enough of killings of our women and children, enough of kidnapping of our daughters and enough of destruction of our property. We are proud that you have come forward to meet us to discuss this issue.” Coomassie urged President Muhammadu Buhari to end the killings and kidnappings. JMA Chairperson Aishatu Pamela Sadauki, who was represented by Hajiya Aliko Muhammed, said their visit was to discuss how to protect children and women from incessant attacks. She said, as mothers, they had been alarmed by continued abduction of children and unwarranted killings, particularly in the region. She stressed the need to address it now, saying it was imperative.   __________ Follow us on Twitter at @thesignalng Copyright 2018 SIGNAL. Permission to use portions of this article is granted provided appropriate credits are given to www.signalng.com and other relevant sources.  The post Nigeria Can Never Survive Without the North – ACF appeared first on SIGNAL. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from SIGNAL. Click here to read the full text on the original website.