With the theme of the week being Championship week, Biggie introduced a challenge that brought out the #bbnaija Housemates inner ‘kids’ and had them feeling ridiculous for not being able to get right, what three year olds would easily do in their sleep. For the ‘Bubble through the Hoop’ Challenge, the #bbnaija Housemates were to make bubbles using the bubble blower, and then keep them afloat until they reach the hula-hoop through which the bubble had to be blown. The catch was that at least 6 Housemates had to successfully ‘hoop’ the bubble. The Housemates were given 12 minutes to complete the Challenge and all but Lolu and Rico Swavey managed to pass the hoop. The two were clearly embarrassed but Biggie gave them another go at the ‘kindergarten’ exam and they managed to pull it off. As fate would have it, Tobi and Cee-C were the first two #bbnaija Housemates that managed to hoop their bubbles, therefore automatically earning themselves ‘representative’ status. Upon learning this, there two couldn’t hide their dissatisfaction, which ultimately over shadowed their joy. Shortly after their first challenge was concluded, the #bbnaija Housemates received a brief. For the second Challenge, the representatives were to ball room dance for as long as Biggie saw fit, wearing classic clothes and unable to do anything either than the dance. At first, the #bbnaija Housemates had a great laugh as the awkwardness was visible even to a blind man. Forced by the collective objective of winning the Challenge, Cee-C and Tobi swallowed their pride and danced away. Approximately 30 minutes through the dance, the distance and awkwardness seemed to have been flushed away and the two seemed too close for comfort. At one point, they gazed into each other’s eyes and had everyone thinking they would lock lips. As they were lost in the dance, the music stopped and even though Biggie commended the amount of emotion invested in the game, they lost the Challenge due to not having had their shoes on. Nonetheless, the long hug and giggle told us that ‘Cebi’ might have resurrected; and time will surely tell. . The post #BBNaija 2018 Day 51: The Chronicles Of Cee-C And Tobi appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.