Following revelations by international watchdog Amnesty International that “Nigerian Security Forces ignored warnings about Boko Haram attack on Dapchi”, the rights group has come under fire by a coalition of Nigerian Non-governmental organizations NGO’s describing the statements from AI as worrisome as it is capable of undermining the battle against insurgents. A joint statement by the group today in Lagos signed by Comrade Odeyemi Oladimeji and Atani John stated that AI was tactically using its many and persistent frivolous reports to demean the effort of the country’s armed forces. “We want Nigerians and the International community to know that AI is on a clear-cut mission of sabotaging our nation’s security by tactically using its many and persistent frivolous reports to demean the effort of our armed forces and ostensibly ginger the Boko Haram terrorists, who again have began tormenting the North East region of the country through their isolated attacks on soft targets, including the recent callous abduction of 110 School girls in Dapchi, Yobe State. “We have also noted that anytime the Boko Haram insurgents are dealt serious blows by our gallant forces, the AI is immediately out with one form of accusation or the other, against our armed forces.This often time results, in a heightened tempo of terrorism in the the North East, as we see the role of Amnesty International, as such that gives commendation and undeserved protection, to these criminal gangs, terrorising our people,” the statement read. The group added that it has become the norm for Amnesty International to ignore basic standards of consulting critical stakeholders, particularly the leadership of the various security agencies, in order to ascertain the veracity of its numerous accusations against them. “From all indications, It is becoming clear that AI is testing the patience of Nigerians by this inordinate interference in our internal security matters. They cannot continue to demoralize our gallant men and women, who have dedicated their lives, to the protection of our lives and the territorial integrity of our Nation. This is unacceptable,” the group stated.  Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook