By Abel Udoekene Youths of Abak 5 comprising Abak, Ukanafun, Oruk Anam, Ika and Etim Ekpo Local Government Areas in Akwa Ibom State on Friday endorses former governor of the State and the Senate Minority leader, Godswill Obot Akpabio to return back to the Senate in 2019. Speaking during the event, Former Chairman of Ika Local Government area, Mr. Savior Enyiekere thanked Senator Akpabio who he called “The leader of Ikot Ekpene Senatorial district” for his effective representation and always standing up to defend Akwa Ibom people.  “We are so happy with what he (Akpabio) has done, he is going back to the Senate unchallenged in 2019” Also speaking during the event, a retired deputy Inspector general of police, DIG, Mr. Udom Ekpoudom thanked Senator Akpabio for bringing him back to the state after his retirement from the police force and pleaded with him to return back to the Senate for the sake of the people.  On his part, Chief Senas Ukpanah maintained that Senator Akpabio is the right man and the best man at the moment to represent the people of Ikot Ekpene Senatorial district in the Senate in 2019 and pleaded with Senator Akpabio to declare his intention, that the people of Abak 5 will queue behind him in 2019. Nigeria Today source gathered that, more than 20 youth groups comprising over 100,000 thousand youth are ready to queue behind Senator Godswill Obot Akpabio and Udom Emmanuel in 2019. Speaking with our correspondent on phone a Youth leader and a house of representative hopeful, Mr. Ndiana-Abasi Nana Udom describe Akpabio as a messiah who did not only changed the face of Akwa Ibom but is willing and ready to support the current governor Udom Emmanuel to fulfill his industrialization drive for the state. “Akpabio is a good man and his love for the state is uncommon, and as a people, we will support him, we will support Udom Emmanuel for Second term. These two people should be celebrated, they are our heroes.” he said “When you look at what he (Akpabio) did for the state when he was governor you will have no option than to fall in love with him. From the airport to the stadium, the road networks, what are we talking about “Just few days ago, i took some of my supporters around sites and projects that his excellency the governor (Udom Emmanuel) is currently doing in Oruk Anam and Ukanafun Federal constituency and they were amazed, I can assure you that Udom is going for second term and Akpabio is going back to the Senate, that is the decision of the people ” He added. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook