 •We applaud the release while awaiting the return of Leah Sharibu Nigerians heartened to the news of the release of the Dapchi girls. Although five reportedly died and a few others, including the now famous Christian faithful Leah Sharibu, we did not have to wait interminably as we have for the Chibok girls. Some Nigerians, including elements of the opposition, have suspected perfidy in the suddenness of their release. A raft of conspiracy theories has leavened the tale and attempted to undermine whatever good intentions led to the girls’ liberty. But there is no evidence to prop these tendentious views and they tend to vitiate the nobility of their rescue. We must applaud the administration for acting in good time and relative despatch in bringing back the girls. This does not however detract from the damnable lapse in defence and vigilance of the Federal Government and the armed forces in giving the hoodlums the room to storm Dapchi, linger for as long as they did and sweep away the girls through long arteries in the north without any road block or intelligence alertness. The military left the school shortly before the invasion and a series of bumbling statements by officials of the government did not help the public already rattled from the discomforts of the Chibok girls’ episode. We cheer to the release while noting that the condition that allowed the incursion and abduction to happen have not abated. One, the government’s self-congratulations that the Boko Haram sect had been defeated is sometimes ridiculed with the persistence of the groups with suicide bombs, sporadic onslaughts on fragile communities and soft targets like schools, markets and mosques and churches. Two, we still have no evidence that our intelligence outfits have risen to the challenge of the group. They continue to organise and infiltrate while our security forces, including the Department of State Services (DSS), have fallen short. We have security forces in all the local government areas of the country, and we need to have information on every whiff of subversive move. Such operatives should also be armed with communication gadgets and other infrastructure to communicate with the military high command for swift action. There are many schools in the north and they are still vulnerable in spite of assurances from the Federal Government that forces have been deployed to protect them. It does not assure us that the government is closing down some of the boarding schools around the north. This does not inspire confidence and collapses into the traps of terror. They have altered our way of life and that signals victory for them. If the boarding schools cannot be guaranteed, how could we guarantee the students’ safety in the classroom if we cannot protect them in their dormitories? The students need assurance that going to school is not potentially a farewell to home, or a trip to the arms of the zealot. Or even a death walk. Five of the girls who died reportedly lost their lives in the course of an arduous journey that comprises road and air trips, passing through many roads and rivers and streams, according to the account of one of the victims. Again, the story of Leah Sharibu raises question about the negotiations. How come the fate of the young Christian was left out of the negotiations? We need the girl back and whatever the terms, it should guarantee not only her faith and release but also her safety. The young girls are some of the softest targets in the north, and they deserve the utmost shield. If the Chibok girls’ chapter did not provide enough deterrence in policy and action, a repeat of Dapchi will be, as President Muhammadu Buhari said, a disaster.   The post Dapchi breather appeared first on The Nation Nigeria. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Nation Nigeria. Click here to read the full text on the original website.