  •     Joins campaign against drug abuse at UNILAG Afro pop singer and Marvin Record act, Korede Bello has urged Nigerians to see police as ‘human beings’ and be ‘part of the solution’ to problems confronting the country. Korede who was made the first Nigeria Police youth ambassador in 2015 said this in an Instagram video. “The reason I’m wearing this uniform is to show you guys that the people in this uniform are human beings like you and me,” he said “The policemen you come in contact with is somebody’s brother, somebody’s sister, somebody’s dad’ somebody’s relative, somebody’s uncle. And they’re human beings like you and me. So, the uniform is not the problem. People are the problem. And we need to address people issues. It’s a society problem. It’s issues of morality, welfare, a whole lot. “But what I’m trying to say is when next you see a police officer, don’t just see somebody wearing a uniform, see a human being.” Earlier on Tuesday, Korede Bello joined other artistes to team up with the Nigeria Police to advise youths to desist from crime. Speaking to an audience of students at the Professor Ade Ajayi Auditorium, the University of Lagos, the singer who was dressed in Police uniform told students to absolve the police from blame and love themselves.  He also implored youths to get involve in governance. “We shouldn’t blame the police for our problems,” Korede said. “But we ourselves, we need to love ourselves, neighbour and country because loving yourself first would make you know what is good for the next person.” Other celebrities that graced the occasion include Ruggedman, Dr. Sid, Sound Sultan, Small Doctor, Odunlade Adekola and Omoni Oboli. The event, an initiative of the Nigeria Police, Zone 2, Lagos, is meant to use entertainment to fight crime and delinquency in the country. It was hosted by CSP Dolapo Badmos. The organisers engaged students to sing a song about the theme. At the end, five students won, and the overall winner, Moruf Bello, performed the winning song.  The post Korede Bello wants fans to see Nigerian police as humans appeared first on The Nation Nigeria. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Nation Nigeria. Click here to read the full text on the original website.