Former President John Mahama of Ghana has disowned Erieka Bennett who was allegedly contracted by Nigeria’s Senior Special Assistant to the President on Foreign Relations & Diaspora Affairs, Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa to arrange the fake Martin Luther King Jnr Award president to Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari. According to LeadersNG, Dabiri is reported to have contracted Erieka Bennett, a former aide of former Ghanaian President John Mahama, to help bring the Martin Luther King Jnr family to Nigeria. The move was said to be aimed at laundering the president’s image as the nation prepares for the 2019 general elections. Only last week, world-renowned billionaire, Bill Gates publicly rubbished the Buhari administration’s economic blueprint, noting that it does not serve the needs of Nigerians. The award, for which the Nigerian government reportedly paid $3m backfired as soon as The King Center disowned the award in what has been described as the biggest ‘Fake Awards’ scandal of 2018. In a tweet on Friday, the former President Mahama disclaimed the report about his association with the said Erieka Bennet, stating that “Erieka Bennett never served as my Aide or worked at any time for me.”  Meanwhile, Dabiri-Erewa in a statement by her media aide, Abdurrahman Balogun, dismissed insinuations that the Nigerian government paid money for the award, stressing that nothing could be further from the truth. “It must be categorically stated here that the trip was totally privately funded and not one kobo was spent by the Nigerian government,” she said.  _________ Follow us on Twitter at @thesignalng Copyright 2018 SIGNAL. Permission to use portions of this article is granted provided appropriate credits are given to www.signalng.com and other relevant sources The post Former President Mahama of Ghana Disowns Facilitator of Buhari’s Fake ‘MLK Award’ appeared first on SIGNAL. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from SIGNAL. Click here to read the full text on the original website.