 •Just how dysfunctional is our oil industry? HAD the information emanated from a lesser source, it may have been discounted as an exaggeration or an attempt to dis-inform. But this troubling piece of information came from an insider who ought to know, and there lies our deep discomfiture. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum Resources (MPR), Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, has expressed worry over the non-availability of in-country data on Nigeria’s oil industry. She asserted that Nigerians had to go to the secretariat of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to source required data on Nigeria’s oil sector. Dr. Yemi-Esan made the declaration at the opening ceremony of OPEC’s data management training workshop in Abuja. In her words: “Immediately after the minister’s speech… somebody stood up and said we didn’t have data source on Nigeria. And I was actually ashamed of myself. And I think as we provide data for OPEC, we should address the question of churning out credible data to be consumed in-country. It is a pity when students are looking for data we have to go to OPEC to get data about Nigeria.” It is noteworthy that this revelation came out of a workshop on data management organised by OPEC here in Nigeria. As if it is not worrisome enough that vital Nigeria oil data are domiciled abroad, it takes their effort to teach Nigeria how to harness and handle data generated from her oil industry. We commend the permanent secretary’s candour at bringing up a seemingly self-indicting information to the public and hope that it would serve as the catalyst needed to move the MPR and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to work in tandem with other stakeholders in the oil industry to set up a robust data centre for Nigeria’s oil industry. Nigeria has been in oil production for more than five decades and for a long time, has ranked among the top 10 producers in the world. Crude oil has been the mainstay of the country’s economy and her most important strategic economic asset. On this score, it would be expected that a major strong point of Nigeria’s oil industry over these years would be the wealth of data it has managed to capture, warehouse and nurture. It is also trite to state the importance of data to such a vital industry as oil. Seismic data, hydrocarbons data, products data, production data, sales data, procurement data, equipment data and a dozen other variants of data necessary for study, research and development of the sector must never be lacking in the labyrinthine setup of the NNPC. Though it was not specified the range of oil data that is lacking in Nigeria, for there is a wide spectrum of data generated from the industry. For instance, the NNPC has a subsidiary, Integrated Data Services Limited (IDSL) which seems to be concerned mainly with hydrocarbons and seismic information of the industry. There is no doubt that there is need for a data centre that holds and manages the entire gamut of data generated from the industry – upstream and downstream; offshore and onshore. Over the years, another subsidiary of the NNPC, the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) which is the regulatory arm has been found to lack the capacity to monitor and regulate the oil sector in Nigeria. For instance, the refrain has been that the DPR still lacked the capacity – in terms of up-to-date equipment and skilled personnel – to monitor crude production output and shipments of the International Oil Companies (IOCs). The prevailing report has always been that DPR only reports figures made available to it by the IOCs. In other words, it has no capacity to generate authentic independent figures. But it is apposite to note that without accurate data, it would be impossible to give account of revenues generated, for instance. It is therefore no wonder that perennially, there is always disputation about revenue figures emanating from the NNPC. We therefore urge the Federal government to take Dr. Yemi-Esan’s exposition very seriously and move quickly to ensure that a world-class oil industry data centre is promptly set up. This is crucial indeed.  The post Dearth of data appeared first on The Nation Nigeria. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Nation Nigeria. Click here to read the full text on the original website.