Tiger Brands could be in a spot of listeriosis bother if things get any worse. Yesterday, news arrived that the fast-moving consumer goods producer had shut down yet another factory, this time its Pretoria plant, following detection of “very low levels” of listeria monocytogenes. More from Mail & Guardian: Still eating polony by the mouthful? Here’s why you should probably think twice about that life decision. Monday was a busy day for the company, because Tiger Brands also sat down with shareholders to explain what the financial figures were looking like. As it stands, Tiger Brands has an annual turnover of R3,94 billion. According to Business Insider SA, the company explained that if there is a 10% reduction in cold-meat production, Tiger Brands would lose R5 million per month. Hold up, though, because here’s where things get pricey – Tiger Brands went on to say that if they had to cease polony and other “value added meat product” sales entirely, they would lose a whopping R50 million a month. Eish. Although the numbers “have not been audited”, and the brand was unable to give guidance as to when the affected factories would resume operation, they did say that the “separately identifiable costs associated directly with the recall and suspension of production” at what is now four sites is estimated to be between R337 to R377 million. As in they’re already sitting at around R350 million in lost revenue thanks to the outbreak. While Tiger Brands does have insurance against such costs, they anticipate a maximum claim of only R94 million. On top of that, there’s potential class action damages of around R425 million: Take that R377 million, and chuck in the R425 million, and you’re looking at R802 million in total lost earnings. At least they have Jungle Oats, All Gold tomato sauce, and all the other products we have come to know and love to keep them going, right? Of course, Tiger Brands isn’t the only South African brand affected. Here’s the most up-to-date list of all the meat products that have been recalled. [source:businessinsider&mg] Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.