When Steinhoff’s share price collapsed in December, South Africa was shooketh; how could a multinational company, with roots set firmly in the country, let us down like that? Since then, the company has been rocked by scandal after scandal, orchestrated in part by one Markus Jooste, who has been cooking the books since 2014. Now it appears that Steinhoff has claimed the life of at least one hedge fund, which elected to close “after it ended the month 32,8% lower,” reports Business Day: Hedge funds differ from regular, long-only equity funds; they use a range of tools – such as shortening which is basically betting on a stock price to fall – to “limit risk and reduce correlation to equity and bond markets”: But the Steinhoff saga wasn’t the only short-call that affected asset managers in December: portfolios that wrongly called the ANC’s elective-conference outcome by, for example, shorting the rand or banking stocks, also took a beating. However, Kaizen is the only asset manager that, thanks to Steinhoff, has shut down entirely: Sheesh – makes you wonder about your retirement money, right? Sure, investing in a hedge fund requires big money, but if you’re new to the game it’s imperative that you seek outside financial guidance to ensure that the portfolio you are investing in is worth it. Especially when it has all the trappings of respectability, such as a name like Steinhoff. Consequence Private Wealth mixes unit trust funds, hedge funds and share portfolios to get the most out of your money. In addition, their expertise in both local and offshore investing blends together carefully selected fund managers with proven track records, to reflect the best of the best when it comes to market views. Sounds way better than going in blind – contact them here for more information. [source: businesslive] Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.