Residents of Ado, Karu Local Government Area, Nasarawa State, have expressed gratitude to Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) over the restoration of electricity, which had kept the community in darkness for over one month. According to some of the residents, who spoke on Monday “we now have big relieve from the pains of the whole situation.’’ The power outage was caused by a faulty transformer, which was later fixed for the community by the AEDC officials. Speaking, Mr Peter Akada lauded both Ado branch office of the AEDC and the company’s officials from Abuja Headquarters for their prompt intervention in the matter. “I am very grateful to AEDC staff for their quick response to our plight. “This is because it was difficult for me in particular as a welder to operate my business, knowing how much it cost to buy diesel to operate my generator anytime we don’t have light.’’ Mrs Ikwo Afaha, another resident, said she would sleep well at night because of the power restoration. “I can now sleep well at night; I was always disturbed by the heat to the extent that I have to keep my doors open at night to sleep comfortably. “I really appreciate Ado community leaders and I think AEDC officials deserve commendation too for their quick response to our challenge. “These are the types of people we want in governance,’’ Afaha said. In his commendation, Mr Christopher Ugwuoke, Ado Community Chairman, said he was relieved from the burden of distress calls from the residents over the power situation. “As the community chairman, to be frank with you, when the issue started I could not sleep, I was disturbed until now that the transformer has been fixed. “I am grateful to the AEDC for their cooperation, “ he said. (NAN) The post Electricity restoration: Ado residents express gratitude to AEDC appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.