Under Miracle second’s Head of House tenure, the House seem to have loosened up a bit more. As the one who initiated a first twist of stripping to what had been until then just a plain dice game, Miracle has since lost one round which earned him to be shamed and paraded around the House by his mates. The one common denominator to all of the dice parties is Alex, who won almost all of her high-bets odds. A Piece of My Mind While playing against the guys of the House – minus Teddy A and Rico – Alex had a blast during the strip dice. Yet none of the other girls ever joined her in the racy version of the game, hence she peppered it differently and made it a truth and dare dice.  With Nina still nursing bruises to her ego, Cee-C and Bambam lent themselves to the crispiest revelations we have heard so far, under Alex’s sharpened curiosity. For instance, Cee-C asked Bambam if she had ever been jealous of her and Tobi’s couple, which Bambam flatly denied. Alex also didn’t miss the chance to tell Cee-C now that they had reconciled that she judged her by her cover and nothing else, which caused Cee-C’s eyelashes to tense during a few flutters. I’ll Worm Confessions Out of You Earlier even Rico dipped his toes into this truth and dare dice game. He went as far as asking if Teddy would start a life with Bambam outside and his reply was a yes with a justification. He mentioned that he knows life with the mother of his child and the life he’s been exposed to in the House with Bambam he would like to explore on the outside. With Cee-C, Rico asked about Tobi and how she really felt about him to which she replied that she was done with the guy. She further added that both of them (she and Tobi)  didn’t really know what the problem between them was but she definitely didn’t see any type of relation between them after Big Brother. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook