We all have them. Just above my right hip sits a 10-plus-year-old scar that arrived from bailing hard after unsuccessfully skating down a hill. It’s not pretty, but thanks to years of applying various oils it feels like it’s disappearing. In reality, however, it’s not, and it might just be time to book a non-surgical treatment with Skin Renewal. The treatment they offer works by separating the scar tissue from healthy tissue, allowing the skin to grow back more level, and reducing the appearance of depressed scars. Although the real trick is to start treatment as soon as a scar is obtained, Skin Renewal’s simple and safe surgery is an effective way of treating scars on both your face and body, before starting with one of the many skin rejuvenation treatments they offer. The surgery is called subcision, which means “subcutaneous incisionless surgery”, a term coined by Orentreich and Orentreich in 1995 to describe the minor surgical procedure for treating depressed scars and wrinkles. The procedure uses a bevel hypodermic needle, inserted through a puncture in the skin surface (hence, “incisionless” surgery), and its sharp edges are manoeuvred under the defect to make subcuticular cuts or incisions. This treatment is done strictly by the trained medical doctors, as a quick in-clinic procedure under local anaesthetic. The principle of this procedure is to break the fibrotic strands, which tether the scar to the underlying subcutaneous tissue. The depression is then lifted by the releasing action of the procedure, as well as from connective tissue that forms during the course of normal wound healing. However, not all scars can be treated: On the body, subcision can also improve the appearance of cellulite depressions when done on the thighs, stomach and buttock area. So, before you lose faith, contact Skin Renewal. Their team of knowledgeable doctors and therapists will assist you in figuring out the right solution for you, whether it’s the subcision surgery or a royal rejuvenation, redermalization or mesotherapy treatment. Give them a call, book an appointment and, hey, you could be waving that scar tissue that you wish you never saw goodbye. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.