Yenagoa – Ohaneze Youth wing in South-South geopolitical zone on Saturday commended the stance of Dr Nnia Nwodo, President General, Ohaneze Ndigbo, for sensitising Nigerians on benefits of restructuring to the nation. Chief Chinedu Arthur-Ugwa, South-South’s Coordinator of the youth arm of Ohaneze, gave the commendation while speaking in Yenagoa. He spoke on the sidelines of the rally on restructuring of the country organised by the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) in Yenagoa. Arthur-Ugwa noted that Ohaneze leader has been in the forefront in efforts to enlighten the people on the need to support efforts at reinforcing the unity among the federating units and make the country a prosperous one. He said that restructuring was more than a slogan and required the support of all parts of the country to make it a success. “We, the Ohaneze youths in Bayelsa and South South applaud the tireless efforts of our President General, Chief Nnia Nwodo in preaching national unity with regard to unity of purpose and restructuring as well. “He has been taking time to break down the concept to the level that ordinary Nigerians can understand and identify with the need to restructure. ‘‘He has shown that restructuring is beneficial to every part of Nigeria and should be acceptable to all. “Also worthy of note is the peace moves made by Nwodo across the nooks and crannies of the federation where Igbo reside and do business; under his tenure, leadership tussles amongst Igbo have been tamed. “In a place where there is disharmony among Igbo and their hosts he has intervened and made peace. ‘‘He met with Ohanaze in Bayelsa and resolved the crisis that had lingered here for many years and we are grateful to him,” Arthur-Ugwa said. He noted that every part of the country has legitimate needs that could be met in a restructured Nigeria and advised the Federal Government to address it in a holistic manner. He said that restructuring held the key to socio-economic advancement of the country provided the Federal Government has the political will to implement it for the benefit of the citizenry. The representatives of Ohaneze, Afenifere, Middle Belt Forum, Arewa Consultative Forum were among others that sent goodwill messages to the rally. (NAN) The post Ohaneze youth wing in South-South applauds Nwodo’s stance on restructuring appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.