To ensure that it meets the desires of its esteemed consumers LG came up with the advanced all new  Gencool  Air conditioner with Dual Inverter technology, this is in its determination to offer Nigerians a cutting edge technology especially consumers seeking Energy efficient products. The air conditioner is renowned for its ability to save as much as 70% on electricity consumption with 40% faster cooling, thereby reducing bills. The new product features a dual inverter compressor with 10 Year warranty that helps users enjoy benefits of LG air conditioner for a longer period of time LG Electronics understands the desires of its esteemed consumers hence its determination to offer Nigerians cutting edge technologies especially consumers seeking Energy efficient products. Unlike the conventional  air conditioner that cannot operate at lower speed due to its constant rotation, the new product  is designed to save energy by 70% by constantly adjusting the compressor speed to maintain desired temperature level thereby reducing energy costs.  The product  comes with dual Rotor inverter compressor, making it more stable hereby increasing durability. According to a consumer Mr. John, who shared his experience, he said: “the ALL NEW GEN COOL AC works seamlessly with his 0.7 KVA Generator  which is a popular source of power among Nigerian populace. This is a clear departure from the conventional ACs. With this unique feature, LG has demonstrated clearly that it possess the ability to meet the needs of consumers who wants to use AC with small capacity generators without necessarily worrying about the start-up electric power for optimum performance in Nigeria anymore.” However, it is important to note that the GEN Mode features allow it to minimize start-up electric requirements to power it. There is no doubt the beauty and functionality of the AC would go a long way to encourage more and more stronger ties among family members who wish to spend quality time with their family members in a relaxed and cool atmosphere, all thanks to LG All New Gencool AC with a guaranteed clean, fresh air which is essential for good health.  With this innovation consumers’ in Nigeria are sure of enjoying a durable, efficient, cost saving and reliable cooling system. The Air conditioner comes with a feature that ensures a 40% torque vibration reduction resulting in the quietest operation of outdoor unit. The 15 degrees tilted skew fan minimizes the surface friction of the blade when in contact with the air. The post LG boosts consumer confidence with Gencool  AC  with Dual Inverter technology appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.