Lagos-based MFM Football Club on Sunday came from a goal down to defeat visiting Katsina United FC 2-1 in a 2017/2018 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) Match Day 14 fixture. The match played at the Agege Stadium saw the hosts fighting back to claim a win through a brace by substitute Chijioke Akuneto. MFM FC Coach Fidelis Ilechukwu made two changes to the team which defeated Heartland FC of Owerri 3-0, with goalkeeper Ospino Egbe replacing Folarin Abayomi. Also, Ayinde Abiodun also led the attack in place of Flying Eagles’ call-up Jesse Akila. The visitors however drew the first blood through Garba Yashua in the 37th minute. At the restart, Akuneto came in for Akinyemi while Abiodun made way for Waheed Akanni. The substitution brought almost instant result as Akuneto struck in the 49th minute with a well-taken free-kick to draw MFM FC level. He made it a brace in the 67th minute, after utilising a deft pass from Chukwuka Onuwa. Speaking later, Akuneto said the win was a sweet victory for his team’s hard labour. “We struggled at first, but it was a sweet victory for the team from hard labour. We are happy to take the three points and that is what is most important for us,’’ he said. MFM, with two games in hand are 7th on the League table, seven points adrift from leaders Lobi Stars of Makurdi. The League table  after MatchDay 14: All the results on Sunday: Heartland 2-1 Nasarawa Utd
Lobi 3-2 Rivers Utd
Akwa Utd 1-1 Abia Warriors
Wikki 3-0 El-Kanemi
FCIU 3-0 Plateau Utd
Kwara Utd 2-1 Kano Pillars
Tornadoes 1-0 Sunshine Stars
Yobe DS 1-1 Enyimba
Go Round 2-2 Rangers
MFM 2-1 Katsina Utd The post MFM fight back to beat Katsina United appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.