Cricket fans wanted blood, and last night’s press conference by Cricket Australia CEO James Sutherland didn’t quite deliver. Yes, Steve Smith, David Warner and Cameron Bancroft have all been sent home hanging their heads in shame, but somehow Ozzie coach Darren Lehmann managed to cling to his job. We will get to all that in a moment, but first let’s start with the reports that David Warner has “gone rogue”. It’s already been widely reported that there are serious tensions in the camp (we covered that here), but yesterday their chief slimeball upped the ante. This via Sport24: Out of all the drama that has unfolded, that above is by far my favourite. Look who was spotted sitting alone at the team hotel – it’s David ‘No Friends’ Warner:  When the team travelled from Cape Town to Jozi, where the fourth test will start on Friday, the media were waiting. Here are the pretty awkward scenes from Cape Town International:  Not running your mouths now, are you? OK, let’s focus on how the hell coach Lehmann managed to cling to his job. The line trotted out by Cricket Australia is that he didn’t know about, and wasn’t involved in, the decision to ball-tamper. We’ll start with Cricinfo, and their take on how the man who has led the team to this point has wriggled off the hook: Lehmann didn’t know? Nope – Twitter wasn’t having it:  And one of the chirps of the day:  People can say Lehmann didn’t know ’til the cows come home, but for me it doesn’t matter. Once he takes that walkie-talkie, radios down to 12th man Peter Handscomb and gets him to run onto the field to tell Bancroft to stick the evidence down his pants, he is complicit. From that moment on, he is as wrapped up in the aftermath of being caught out as the players themselves. For a team, and a country, that’s talking about fronting up to their cheating, Sutherland went to great lengths to avoid actually using the word. Seriously – look at the video of him dodging the question like Zuma dodging corruption questions in Parliament:  And again, when asked a third time if it’s cheating:  Say it after me, James – we cheated. So why are Cricket Australia so reluctant to get rid of Lehmann, given that the decision to retain his services has been met with outrage and disgust back home? Maybe you have your own theories, but this one from Reddit (yes, a place where conspiracies abound) actually holds water. Let’s take a look:  We know that Cricket Australia stands to lose massive, massive sponsorship deals if this continues to spiral out of control (some of those numbers at the bottom of this story), and they are currently in damage control mode. Kicking Lehmann to the curb, and knowing that he is a combative character with a history of speaking his mind, could lead to him spilling the beans in a way that does irreparable damage to the sport’s national governing body. Later this evening, or perhaps at some point later in the week, we will find out just how extensive the bans for Smith, Warner and Bancroft are. I would guess Steve Smith might be hit with 12 months, Bancroft with six, and we will never see Warner play test cricket again, but by hanging onto Lehmann Cricket Australia have nailed their colours to the mast. [sources:sport24&cricinfo&reddit] Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.