The N200m copyright infringement suit filed by a popular Nigerian musician, Paul I.K. Dairo, alias Paul Play, against a telecommunications company, Etisalat (now 9mobile) held on Monday with the court admitting an additional exhibit. The exhibit, a Deed of Assignment between Paul Play and the Musical Copyright Society of Nigeria, was admitted by the court as Exhibit 9. Paul Play’s lawyer, Mr. Romeo Michael, tendered the Deed of Assignment through the Director General of MCSN, Mr. Mayowa Ayilara, who appeared in court on Monday as a subpoenaed witness. Justice Muslim Hassan adjourned further proceedings in the case till May 24, 2018. Paul Play, a multiple award-winning artiste, is seeking an order of the court compelling Etisalat and others to pay him N200m for allegedly making use of his 2009 hit track, “Mosorire” without his authorisation. Paul Play claimed that Etisalat used “Mosorire” in its popular television reality show, tagged, “Nigerian Idol” for two consecutive years without paying him. Joined with Etisalat in the suit marked FHC/CS/581/2014 is Optima Media Group, which is the organiser of Nigerian Idol. In an affidavit filed in support of his suit and deposed to by himself, Paul Play averred that, “I am the copyright owner of the work named and tagged ‘Mosorire’, contained in my repertoire, exclusively for the jurisdiction of Nigeria and the authority or permission to exploit such work can only be obtained from me. “However, the defendants, being an organiser of a television reality show tagged, ‘Nigerian Idol’, caused the use, adaptation and deployment of my said work, titled ‘Mosorire’ on the said show without my consent, and which was broadcast to several millions of television viewers throughout the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the rest of Africa for 2012 and 2013 editions.”  __________ Follow us on Twitter at @thesignalng Copyright 2018 SIGNAL. Permission to use portions of this article is granted provided appropriate credits are given to www.signalng.com and other relevant sources. The post Court Admits Exhibit in Paul Play, Etisalat N200 Million Copyright Suit appeared first on SIGNAL. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from SIGNAL. Click here to read the full text on the original website.