 Just recently a development team from the UK has created a bitcoin cash (BCH) point-of-sale server which allows brick and mortar merchants to accept BCH as a form of payment in-store. The startup has started an initial pre-sale, and BCH Mini-POS devices will begin shipping this summer. Also read: Québec Premier: We’re Not Really Interested in Bitcoin Mining The decentralized cryptocurrency bitcoin cash (BCH) will soon have a point-of-sale (POS) server available for merchants running a business in physical locations. The BCH Mini-POS is intended for small merchants and stores says the startup. Further, the device is compatible with a web browser and also allows merchants to accept 0 confirmation BCH transactions in-store. Additionally, the server solution is open source and its codebase can be reviewed on Github. “Although it is an internet-connected device, at no point are any private keys stored within Mini-POS server,” explains the startup. In order to use the Mini-POS system, the merchant simply types the amount charged in the terminal application. The device server checks the live exchange rate with conversion rates in multiple local currencies. Following this, the terminal displays an on-screen QR code tied to a generated BCH receiving address. The customer merely scans the QR and sends the payment to the merchant. Because the server accepts 0-confirmation transactions the process is very quick as the development team explains:  The machine has Wi-Fi and Bluetooth capabilities alongside an ethernet connection. The company has started its pre-sale, and the Mini-POS server and cashier terminal kit is currently $200 USD. An additional Mini-POS terminal can be purchased for $75 while the standalone server is selling for $125. In September of 2018, the development team plans to launch a wallet that allows fiat conversion and plans to outsource product manufacturing by October. The server and terminal system are currently being tested at a UK based store. What do you think about Mini-POS server? Let us know what you think about this product in the comments below. Disclaimer: Bitcoin.com does not endorse this product/service. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the mentioned company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article. Images via Shutterstock and the Mini-POS Cash website. Do you like to research and read about Bitcoin technology? Check out Bitcoin.com’s Wiki page for an in-depth look at Bitcoin’s innovative technology and interesting history. The post Mini-POS Launches Zero Confirmation Bitcoin Cash Point-of-Sale Terminal appeared first on Bitcoin News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Bitcoin News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.