The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) is warning against the importation of processed meat products into the country due to the recent outbreak of listeriosis disease in South Africa caused by contaminated processed meat products.  As at 2nd March, 2018, nine hundred and forty eight (948) laboratory confirmed cases of Listeriosis were recorded with one hundred and eighty (180) deaths, according to the public alert cited on the NAFDAC website dated 17, Saturday, 2018.  Listeriosis is a bacterial infection most commonly caused by Listeria monocytogenes. It can cause severe illness, including severe sepsis, meningitis, or encephalitis, sometimes resulting in lifelong harm and even death.  Listeria is ubiquitous and is primarily transmitted via the oral route after ingestion of contaminated food products  The agency publicised that the South African Minister of Health issued a Press Statement to confirm the source of the outbreak as processed meat products manufactured by Enterprise Corporation and Rainbow Chicken Limited. In addition, the Consumer Protection Act of South African issued a safety recall notices on 4th March, 2018 to manufacturers of these products. The safety recall includes the manufacturer’s entire distribution network, both domestic and international.  Laboratory investigation established that the source of the outbreak was confirmed as ready-to-eat processed meat products – polony, followed by Vienna sausages and other “cold meat” manufactured by Enterprise Corporation Food Facility and Rainbow Chicken Limited in Polokwane, South Africa.  However, NAFDAC has strengthened surveillance to prevent importation of contaminated processed meat products produced by Enterprise Corporation and Rainbow Chicken Limited, South Africa. The Agency has also strengthened surveillance on wholesale and retail outlets to seize and sanction any organization in possession of meat products produced by these companies.  “All importers are warned to desist from importing processed meat products produced by Enterprise Corporation and Rainbow Chicken Limited, South Africa. “Distributors, wholesalers and retailers in possession of meat products produced by these companies are to submit them to the nearest NAFDAC office”, says agency   Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation (WHO) on Wednesday also warned Nigeria and 15 other African countries of the listeriosis outbreak confirming its support for their preparedness and response to the disease.   The other African countries are Angola, Botswana, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.  Anybody with information on distribution and sale of these unwholesome meat products should contact the nearest NAFDAC office, NAFDAC PRASCOR (20543 TOLL FREE from all networks) or via pharmacovigilance@nafdac.gov.ng. The post Disease alert: NAFDAC warns against importation of processed meat products appeared first on BusinessDay : News you can trust. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from BusinessDay : News you can trust. Click here to read the full text on the original website.