The National Youth Leader of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Hon. Sunday Udeh-Okoye, has lashed out at President Mohammadu Buhari over his London comments describing the Nigerian youth as lazy and uneducated.  Faulting the President, Udeh-Okoye insisted in a statement he issued in Abuja on Friday that the Nigerian youth remained the “most innovative, enterprising, hard working, and patriotic”.  He said: “We are saddened by what has become a habitual and flagrant demarketing of Nigeria and her citizens by President Muhammadu Buhari, especially anytime he steps outside the shores of the country. A President sincere about attracting foreign investors would not go about running his citizens down, telling the entire world that his citizens are corrupt and now, that the youth, which constitute about 60 per cent of the country’s population are uneducated, lazy, and unwilling to work”.  He accused the President of standing the truth on the head before the international community.  “President Buhari should have instead told the world that this All Progressives Congress (APC) administration has incurred a debt of over N11 trillion in just three years without any completed project, especially socio-economic infrastructural  projects that will drive youth entrepreneurship, to show for it in his third anniversary as President.  “He should have told the international community that his poor management of the economy has wantonly devalued the Naira from N160 to a United States Dollar he inherited in 2015 to between N350 to N400 and has triggered investment flights to neighbouring countries like Ghana and demise uncountable businesses.  “Indeed, he should have confessed to the world that over 16 million hard working Nigerians, most of them the youth, lost their jobs, 18 million became acutely underemployed, and inflation hit an all-time high due to his incompetence and lack of vision.  “Therefore, to turn around to stand the truth on its head is unacceptable to the Nigerian youth”, he added.  The National Youth Leader, however, enjoined the Nigerian youth to exercise patience as 2019 was already near.  “It is needless joining issues with Mr. President and his incompetent team, whom besides having nothing to offer us, wants to turn potential helpers and the entire world against us.  “The best answer to this assault on the sensibilities of the Nigerian youth is to obtain Permanent Voters Card  and be ready to repay the President in his own coin in 2019 by showing him and the fumbling APC the red card across the country”, Udeh-Okoye stressed.   Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook