A member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Convention Committee and former governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Kalu, has advised APC members to adhere strictly to the decisions of the party. According to Kalu, the APC remains the only party with the people’s interest at heart. He emphasised that the party hierarchy should be respected by members and other stakeholders of the APC, and added that there must be discipline in the conduct of party activities. In his response to questions from newsmen at Sam Mbakwe Airport, Owerri, on Tuesday,  Kalu admonished politicians not to heat up the polity with inflammatory utterances. The former governor said: “The APC is the only political party that is passionate about the welfare of Nigerians. “The President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has been working relentlessly, to take the country to enviable heights. “The president has achieved remarkable milestones, especially in the areas of security, anti-corruption crusade, youth empowerment and international relations. “With the support of all and sundry, the country will take its rightful position in the comity of nations.” He also spoke against the rumoured division in the APC in the South East. The front-line politician blasted those peddling lies against the party, adding that APC is one big family and as such, there is unity in the party. He said: “The APC is waxing stronger in the South East. We will continue to sensitise our people on the essence of playing mainstream politics. “The time is now for Ndigbo to mobilise support for the Federal Government.” Kalu charged political appointees from the South East to use their positions to promote the development of the region as a whole and not only their respective states. “APC stakeholders should support officials of the party in their quest to make South East a stronghold of the party. We must respect the  constitution of the party; in our political endeavours. “In order to reposition the party, the hierarchy of the party must, from time to time, summon meetings to deliberate and appraise activities of the party. “To instil discipline and foster unity in the party, all meetings of party faithful in the region must be approved by the  national vice chairman (South East)  or state chairmen of the party. We should promote meetings aimed at building the party and not for selfish ambitions. “People should desist from holding meetings to polarise or cause disaffection among party stalwarts. “Let us allow the party structure do its job for the sake of peace and harmony. No one is bigger than the party,” said Kalu. The former governor also urged leaders of the party in the region to complement efforts of party officials in their quest to make the region a stronghold of the party. Kalu also faulted perpetrators of falsehood in the party, and noted that the party will come out victorious in the 2019 general election. The post Kalu urges APC members to respect party leadership appeared first on The Sun News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Sun News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.