By Emmanuel Aziken, Political Editor
The Urhobo in Delta State have dragged the Senate before a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, seeking for an order to stop the legislative body from denying the ethnic group representation by the suspension of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege. The plaintiffs, Chief Alfred Okaka, Mr. Chris Agaga, Mr. Kingsley Okrikpo,  Harrison Akpojarho, Manny Edu, Lyndon Ugbome, Moses Adegor and Godspower Emowhomuere, are praying the court to hold  “that the rights of the people of Delta Central senatorial district to an unfettered representation in the legislative business of the Senate by Senator Omo-Agege constitutionally guaranteed for a tenure of four years cannot be abridged, diminuted, suspended, abrogated and or vitiated, except as stipulated by the 1999 Constitution (as amended.)”. Defendants in the suit are Senate President Bukola Saraki, Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu, the Senate, Clerk of the Senate, the Department of State Services, the Attorney-General of the Federation, Inspector- General of Police and Senator Omo-Agege. The plaintiffs are also praying the court to restrain Omo-Agege from appearing before any committee of the Senate to defend himself on his claim that President Muhammadu Buhari is the target of the bill to amend the Electoral Act. They also want the court to declare that “under the 1999 Constitution  (as amended), the plaintiffs’ elected senator (Omo-Agege), representing Delta Central senatorial district cannot be made to vacate office other than as provided for by sections 68 and 69 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). *A declaration that the Senate  has no power under the 1999 Constitution as amended to suspend from office any senator  and in particular, the 8th Defendant representing the Plaintiffs and other constituents of Delta Central senatorial district in the Senate.”  The post Omo-Agege’s supension: Urhobo drag Senate to court appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.