Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, has descended on Nigerians who criticised President
Muhammdu Buhari statement in London, accusing them of twisting the President’s statements.
President Buhari had been quoted to have said Nigerian youths were lazy and illiterate, sparking
nationwide outrage since Wednesday.
Adesina however, in a statement on Thursday, accused the critics of manipulating the comment of the
President.
“At the Commonwealth Business Forum in London on Wednesday, April 18, President Muhammadu
Buhari gave a keynote address on Making Business Easier between Commonwealth Countries. The
presentation was followed by a discussion, and question and answer session.
Responding to a question, President Buhari had cause to talk about some Nigerian youths, and he said:
"We have a very young population; our population is estimated conservatively to be 180 million. More
than 60 per cent of the population is below the age of 30. A lot of them have not been to school and
they are claiming that Nigeria has been an oil producing country, therefore they should sit and do
nothing and get housing, healthcare and education free,” the statement read in part.
It continued: “Typical of their stock in trade, manipulators and twisters of statements of Mr. President,
who lie in wait to make mischief, interpreted the comment to mean that President Buhari had taken all
Nigerian youths to the cleaners. But elementary English recognises a wide gulf between "a lot of" and
the word "all." How can "a lot of them," suddenly transmogrify to mean “all of them?” Mischievous and
unconscionable!
There is no way President Buhari, father of the Nigerian nation in every sense of the word, who equally
has biological children of his own in the youths age bracket, will pass a vote of no confidence on all
youths. It can only exist in the imagination of those who play what the President has described as
"irresponsible politics" with everything.
President Buhari has always applauded and celebrated Nigerian youths who excel in different areas of
endeavour, from sports, to academia, and other realms. And he will continue to do so, because he
values the youths, and knows that they are the fulcrum on which the future of the country rests.
Indeed, every country has its share of idle population, and it is the bounden duty of government at all
levels, to create an enabling environment for them to actualise their potentials. That is what President
Buhari is committed to doing.
It is futile for mischief makers to lie in wait, and take a minor part of the words of the President, and
turn it into negative commentary, peradventure they could diminish the profile of the President.
Nigerians across all walks of life know who is serving them faithfully and truly, and they will always
reciprocate such fidelity as occasions demand,” the statement read in part. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Nigerian Pilot News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.