Don’t worry, babe, it’s not just you. As time ticks away and our bodies start to change, we notice more and more that, oh, there’s another chin forming, or damn, girl, you got a muffin top when you wear those jeans. And, although some of us work hard at keeping our figure somewhat trim, the stubborn fat that targets those hard-to-define places makes us feel like all that hard work is for nothing. But just because we think it’s stubborn doesn’t mean it’s difficult to get rid of. Skin Renewal has introduced a new way of dissolving the unwanted fat, a treatment that is great for targeting specific areas of the body. It’s called Cecarrelli Fat Lipolysis and is a new, innovative fat lipolysis Mesotherapy solution formulated in the research laboratory of Professor C Ceccarelli, a regenerative and physiological scientist in Rome, Italy. The treatment works by injecting a concentrated zinc and vitamin C solution that dissolves the fat, and allows for further treatments to then sculpt the area. Here’s an example from Mooimark, met Clare Wiese-Wentzel. Skip to the 2:30 mark to see the before and after:  Lekker. The areas of the body that can be treated with the Cecarrelli Fat Lipolysis treatment are: Face: eye bags, fatty nasolabial folds/bulges, fatty jowls and double chin, fatty jawline.
Body: Resistant fat on tummy, love handles, inner thighs, saddle bags, bra bulges, bat wing arms, knees, cankles and cellulite bulges. And below, my friends, is all you need to know about the treatment: If you’re considering it, pop over here to read more about the treatment, and then book a consultation at your nearest Skin Renewal branch. With a host of professionals who will asses and provide you with the best treatments possible, we can assure you that you are in safe hands and you can say goodbye to that stubborn fat. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.