Another world cup is around the corner, the big question is who will take home the golden Cup home? A lot of fans worldwide would have started guessing and searching online for bettingtop10 reviews platforms, while some people will watch the match just for the sake of fun while a lot more will be happily watching and making football calculation for the simple reason, many will make their millions as it will be the top sport betting for this period in the world. Betting has become a household name among the young generation, in every group of gathering in Africa you will hear people discussing European league, top sport betting tips, the highest paid player etc. Cambridge dictionary define Betting as the activity of risking money, for example by trying to guess the result of a race or other future event: Sports betting have been in existence since ancient times, but it has gained more popularity with the advent of champions Europe leagues, world cup. A lot of people have become millionaires in sport betting but one need a comprehensive tips and guide, otherwise the person will end up losing all his fortune playing it. It’s not a surprise that viewing centers across Africa on Saturday and Sunday are always flooded with viewers,   you can easily spot the football gambles in most of the viewing centers as they are always making augment on who is the highest paid player or will win the game they are watching , sometimes a new person might think the viewers are fighting , but its just the passion for the game and what they hope to make One interesting stuff with sport is that it cools down the mind, so people are always willing to learn how to play bet. A Manchester fan posted on his wall that he had made close to $100,000  in just his first year of  playing it, while another Chelsea fan  said he had made $20,000 in 3 months, but A female   Chelsea fan had a different side as she claimed to have lost more than $10,000 in 6 months , Another lucky Female Manchester fan made $50,000 in here first attempt and she spent the whole money helping the less privileged, in Her words “ Money is meant to be shared not spent alone” It’s always wise and advisable to stake what you can afford to lose as it’s a risky venture; there is a popular saying that says: Only risk takers are potential millionaires Bet can be very profitable by following simple rules and tips from expert like betting top 10 , so as the Russia world cup is around the corner it’s time to start planning.   Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Nigerian Pilot News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.