Fresh facts emerged yesterday as to why the Presidential Panel on Recovery of Public Property is currently investigating allegations of criminal activities against Federal the self-acclaimed private investigator in the United kingdom,  Victor Uwajeh with the view of withdrawing his appointment as it’s consultant. Chairman of the panel, Chief Okoi Obono Obla who confirmed this to Nigerian pilot  said the decision followed public outcry over his appointment. ” We are investigating the allegation and if it is true,  will likely review it.” Obono Obla confirmed. However, Nigerian pilot  investigations revealed that the decision to review Uwajeh’s appointment by the panel may not be unconnected to series of complains by lawyers   to the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami [SAN] particularly by Lawyers Against Corruption [LAC] . The said complains  and Objection to the appointment of Victor Osita Uwajeh [aka Olikaeze Onicha Ugbo] as a Special Investigator to the Presidential Committee on Asset Recovery [PARP]. The lawyers , noted that “Mr. Victor Osita Uwajeh is a self-claimed UK based private Investigator who have been using fake investigator’s licence and certificate since 2007 to parade himself and impersonate as a trained private investigator. “That the licence is to enable him carry out the security work of managing, supervising and /or employing individual who engage on such activities like guarding, key holding and immobilization, restriction and removal and clamping of wrongly parked vehicles. The licence will expire on the 25th of May, 2020. “Our background checks on Victor Uwajeh revealed that he has also been linked with so many criminal activities and corruption charges bordering on forgery, conspiracy, fraud and criminal impersonation. Sometimes in 2020, when operatives of the EFCC stormed his Abuja residence, they recovered several sensitive materials relating to the criminal case against Mrs. Cecilia Ibu, which he used in blackmailing her to part with millions of Naira. He presented fake identity card marked No. 23-340-1107 purportedly issued by EFCC to him as its informant in claiming that he was an operatives of the Commission with licence by the British Government to practice as a private investigator. However, investigation by EFCC revealed that it was a sham. “That in the criminal proceedings involving Osita Victor Uwajeh in charge No. FCT /HC/CR/31/2010-Federal Republic of Nigeria Vs. Victor Osita Uwajeh, evidence were led to show that upon being authorized by the former chairman of EFCC, Mrs. Farida Waziri vide a letter dated 3rd November 2008, with reference No. EFCC/EC/GC/031/1509, titled ‘Instruction to Act on Behalf of EFCC”, he took advantage of the authority to parade himself in the unsuspecting public as an EFCC official and engaged in acts of blackmail, extortion and forgery from politically exposed persons.” Nigerian pilot recalled that controversy trialed Victor Uwajeh’s appointment by the Federal government, as a consultant to trace and recover undeclared assets and proceeds of fraud as part of the ongoing fight against corruption. A group of aggrieved lawyers had queried the appointment which was done by the Chairman of the presidential panel on Recovery of Public Property, PARP, Chief Okoi Obono Obla. The aggrieved lawyers under the auspices of Lawyers Against Corruption (LAC) have threatened to drag to Chief Obla to court over the said appointment. Confirming the appointment of Uwajeh to Nigerian pilot , Obla said the panel has the powers to co-opt anybody who can assist in the recovery of government properties. “Why do you want to confirm his appointment? We have the powers to appoint anybody to assist us in our job. “He is a very experienced professional investigator who has worked the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and has a track record on money tracing and asset recovery and we need his experience in helping us to carry out our mandate. “It will interest you to know that he is doing it for free as a patriotic Nigerian.” ‎However, the lawyers wondered why a man who has a four-count criminal charge pending against him in court should be appointed by the panel. Justice John Tsoho of the Abuja division of the Federal High Court has declared Uwajeh, who has been evading court summons as a fugitive of the law. The judge further berated the Nigeria Police for protecting a fugitive of the law, after he was told by the prosecution counsel, Aminu Alilu that he was under police protection. ‎Before the Federal High Court, Victor Victor Uwajeh is facing a four court charge bordering on forgery, documents falsification, fraud and procuring forged documents. The court has since granted the request made by the ‎Federal government to serve criminal summons on Uwajeh through substituted means, by pasting at his premises. Justice Tsoho granted the application after counsel to the Federal government,  Alilu informed the court that Uwajeh had on several times  evaded service as he did  previously. However, when the matter came up for hearing at the last adjourned date , Alilu informed the court that one of the court plantiff who went with the policeman at Uwajeh’s  residents was almost shot by the policeman guiding his house. “one of the bailiff went to the address of the defendant at No:9 Jesse Jackson street Asokoro and was almost shot by the policemen guarding  his house. “The defendant is aware of this matter. His counsel had pleaded that he travelled to the United States and that  once he return, he will appear in court. “I know that it is  not yet ripe to make an application for a bench warrant. However, I will apply section 124 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act for leave of the court to paste a copy of the Criminal of the Criminal summon in a conspicuous part in the premises where he resides”, he said. Justice Tsoho after listening to the submissions wondered why someone that the state wants to bring to justice will be protected by the same people looking for him, he wondered why the police will be protecting a fugitive from the  law. He urged the people going to effect the service at his residence  to be careful and mindful  of what had already played out. He held that, ”giving the circumstances, section 124 has become inevitable. Accordingly, the application is granted. Service should be effected on Uwajeh through substituted means”. The matter was subsequently adjourned to May 21 for arraignment. ‎The group of lawyers in a statement signed by its National President, Ahmed Lukma and the Secretary, Mr. Liman Shuaibu, there has been some unconfirmed online media that a fugitive of the law has been appointed a consultant by the PARP. The group further added that it will challenge the action in court to proved that Victor Uwajeh is a man of questionable character citing instances on how he allegedly down loaded EFCC files during the tenure of Mrs Farida Waziri as the Executive Chairman of the EFCC when he paraded a fake certificate as a United kingdom private investigator extorting money from politically exposed persons. According to the group,  Uwajeh was docked by the EFCC, for impersonation before a FCT high court. The group further added that the certificate Victor Uwajeh is parading was issued to him last year in the United Kingdom as a license to work as a human and vehicle access controller, elevator and office building guarding and car park operator. This license was issued to Victor Uwajeh on the 26th May, 2017 with license number 100390916576656, issued by the Security Industry Authority (sia) UK. This is information is verifiable. All other security licenses been paraded by Uwajeh are fake and forged documents and they are downloadable free of charge on google. The group further alleged that if allowed Uwajeh will download government files in the federal ministry of Justice and start extorting money from politically exposed persons. The group also said that they will do everything within the ambit of the law to stop the purported appointment of Victor Uwajeh aka Olikaeze Onicha Ugbo in a court of competent jurisdiction. Meanwhile, another legal practitioner,  ‎Anayo Adibe condemned the said appointment while questioning the credibility of Uwajeh. In a press statement in Abuja, Adigbe said his character as at present remain in doubt to hold public office until he presents himself bona fide to clear his name, and establish that his character remains in good stead. ” It presents a great obstacle to the intellect to fathom the reasons for and ramifications of Victor Osita Uwajeh’s proposed appointment to a Federal Government office as a ‘consultant on asset recovery’. “The gentleman – l use the label merely in respect of formal convention- in question is, until he presents himself bonafide to clear his name, and establish that his character remains in good stead. This is public business, and we as honest members of the Nigerian public retain the right to scrutinize those who are mandated to act of our collective behalf. Meanwhile, as it were, let us attend to the facts of the matter. Uwajeh, allegedly a private investigator based in the United Kingdom, who apparently also operates under the alliance of ‘Olikaeze Onichaugbo’ is under prosecution by the Attorney General of the Federation for charges including conspiracy, criminal impersonation, fraud and forgery in  CHARGE No.FHC/ABJ/CR/148/2017 FRN. Vs. VICTOR OSITA UWAJEH. The case is held before Hon. Justice John Tsoho of the Federal High Court, Abuja. Uwajeh stands accused of defrauding British authorities by way of forged documents. Following a report on the issue: “A preliminary investigation conducted to verify these bogus certificates Victor Uwajeh is using to deceive and defraud unsuspecting people shows that the certificate Victor Uwajeh is parading was issued to him last year 2017 in the United Kingdom as a permit to work as a human and vehicle access controller, elevator and office building guarding and car park operator. This license was issued to Victor Uwajeh on the 26th May, 2017 with license number 100390916576656, issued by the Security Industry Authority (SIA), UK. This is information is verifiable.                                                                                                  All other security licenses being paraded by Uwajeh are fake and forged documents which are downloadable free of charge of the internet. This is a brief character of a person that will be appointed as a consultant to an anti corruption agency.” End Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Nigerian Pilot News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.