If this week’s European football action taught us anything, it was that a three-goal lead is never safe. On Tuesday Barcelona were dumped out of the quarter-final of the Champions League by Roma, having beaten them 4-1 in the first leg, which led to one of the most fantastic bits of commentary you will ever see. Then, on Wednesday night, Juventus took on Real Madrid, who had beaten the Italians 3-0 in the first leg. In a truly incredible case of lightning striking twice, Juve fought their way back into the contest, leading 3-0 in the dying minutes. With the game headed to extra time, controversy struck. English referee Michael Oliver awarded Real Madrid a penalty, Juve ‘keeper Gianluigi Buffon had a meltdown and was sent off, and Cristiano Ronaldo stepped up to send Real through to the semi-finals. Perhaps the moment is best revisited with some dramatic background music:  I dislike seeing Ronaldo score as much as anyone, but many pundits agree it was a penalty and what’s a man to do? Now, as the dust settles and the 40-year-old legendary ‘keeper comes to grips with the fact that his dream is over, he is lashing out. We shall start with him saying that Michael Oliver has as rubbish bin where his heart should be:  I will award 10 points for the novelty of the insult. Italians are known for wearing their hearts on their sleeves, and Buffon wasn’t done either. Esquire have an article headlined “The Tragedy Of Gianluigi Buffon” that is worth a look, starting with his comments just after the final whistle: Yeah, he clearly digs that rubbish bin / bag analogy. I’m pretty sure Oliver didn’t want to be forced to make such a call, and the rules clearly state that if you become overly physical with a referee then it’s a red card. Imagine a rugby player behaving like this? A ban spanning months would be dished out. Again, the tragedy: In case you didn’t know, Buffon will retire at the end of the season. How’s this for things going full circle?  At least Zinedine got a decent headbutt in. If Buffon knew he was getting a red, he should have gone for a Cantona-style kung fu kick.  Things between Buffon and the man who converted the penalty are all good, in case you were wondering. During another interview rant, Ronaldo walked past and offered the Italian a hug and a kiss:  Apparently Ronaldo said sorry, and later praised Buffon’s long and storied career, calling him one of the greatest goalkeepers ever. You can’t argue with that, but maybe it’s time he hangs up the gloves. Career in waste disposal management, perhaps? [source:esquire] Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.