 The Nigerian Police has insisted that they would dock Senator Dino Melaye ‘without any delay’, after re-arresting him from an Abuja hospital today. In a statement on Tuesday night, Police confirmed an earlier report that Melaye, escaped from lawful custody when ‘miscreants and hoodlums’ blocked a police vehicle conveying him to Lokoja to face trial. According to Police Spokesman, ACP Jimoh Moshood, the “hoodlums and miscreants” in two Toyota Hilux vehicles blocked the Police vehicle conveying Senator Dino Melaye around Area 1 Round About, Abuja. “In the process the Senator jumped out of the Police vehicle through the window and was rescued from the Police men by hoodlums and miscreants to an unknown destination”. The statement reads in full: “At about 12:00Hrs of today Sen. Dino Melaye while in lawful custody of the Nigeria Police Force and being taken for arraignment in Federal High Court, Lokoja from Abuja, escaped from lawful custody when hoodlums and miscreants in Two Toyota Hilux Vehicles blocked the Police vehicle conveying Senator Dino Melaye around Area 1 Round About, Abuja and in the process the Senator jumped out of the Police vehicle through the window and was rescued from the Police men by hoodlums and miscreants to an unknown destination. “The Police team reinforced and trailed Senator Dino Melaye to Zankli Hospital, Abuja where he was re-arrested. “The Senator would be arraigned in court without further delay. “Meanwhile, one of the Toyota Hilux vehicles used by the hoodlums and miscreants in aiding the escape of the Senator has been recovered by the Police investigation team. “The Inspector General of Police has therefore directed a thorough investigation into the circumstances leading to the rescue and escape of Senator Dino Melaye from lawful custody.” Source – Dailypost The post We will drag Dino Melaye to court without delay – Police appeared first on INFORMATION NIGERIA. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from INFORMATION NIGERIA. Click here to read the full text on the original website.