Every day on the Nigerian internet, there are people who keep our eyes glued to our phone screens as we read their rants, opinions, perspectives on political and social matters, etc. Sometimes, they are just downright ridiculous. We make it our job to take down the names of these noisemakers. Here’s our list from today: 1. Idris  How does Idris know this? Since we want to believe that he is a member of the ‘outward’ community and knows nothing about what is going on ‘inwardly’ in graves. 2. Nasir El-Rufai  Sometimes, we should sit back and commend some political office holders for their work. They might be ‘stubborn’ oo but… Before you start condemning the meagre pay, remember it sums up to N171,390,000 monthly. 3. Dipo Awojide Be inspired, be responsible.  The message: Work hard and create a better future for the coming generation. 4. Sammy  Shoot your shot! Just like one singer said: “If you love somebody tell am you love am ehhh, it does no crime, no crime at all“. Imagine if he had remained timid and someone else came up, just imagine. 5. Farooq Kperogi  When a president talks like that, he shows that he is determined to undermine all attempts at national cohesion. Unless the Presidency comes out to ‘clarify’ that statement, as they usually do, we must condemn such ‘open-field war against other ethnic groups‘. 6. Elvis Tunde  Lawal innocently tweeted but some people are just wicked. They cannot look and pass.  7. Dominic Ashimwe  Amen? Amen!!! If you see and understand the suffering all over the world, you cannot but be moved to tears. 8. Troublemaker  Please, can we ask this guy was doing when he was typing this? As for me, I feel he was probably trying out Jamaican weed. Understand wetin? Read » Today’s Noisemakers: Farooq Kperogi, Kaduna government, Dipo Awojide, others on YNaija Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from YNaija. Click here to read the full text on the original website.