 Fundstrat’s Tom Lee appeared on CNBC’s Fast Money show yesterday to weigh in on the ‘battle’ between Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash. Despite efforts by the shows presenters to illicit a partisan response from Lee, the ‘general’ remained diplomatic in his answers. Even though the title of the segment is ‘in the battle between bitcoin and bitcoin cash, Tom Lee says buy bitcoin’, Lee spent very little time addressing any conflict between the Bitcoin community. When the presenter referred to him as a ‘general’ in the ‘battle’, Lee looked bemused. He responded to a question about which to buy diplomatically: He addressed the issue of Bitcoin Cash being overbought, stating the pending hard fork in BCH was likely driving the rising price seen in the asset over the last couple of days. The Fundstat co-founder was then asked if he thought Bitcoin was acting as an indicator for the stock market. To this, the investor replied that he thought the two were casually connected at best. Perhaps the most interesting portion of the show was when the conversation turned to adoption of cryptos by institutional investors. When asked if he thought more large money managers were ‘allowed’ exposure to BTC and other currencies, Lee responded: This lead to questions about the Goldman Sachs trading desk that’s penned to launch this summer. Lee affirmed that he believed the move by the investment bank was indicative of the digital asset class going more mainstream. He said that he felt that it was a sign that the space was maturing thanks to greater ‘clarity and custody’, as well as there being a lot of money to be potentially made. The interview concluded with Lee explaining the Bitcoin Misery Index to a panel more concerned with the fact that the acronym was the same as ‘body mass index.’ Tom Lee has long been bullish on Bitcoin and digital currencies generally. His recent price predictions state that there will be new all-time highs for BTC by the end of the year. He’s also claimed that each Bitcoin could be worth $55,000 by the year 2022.  The post Fundstrat’s Tom Lee Thinks Bitcoin Cash is Currently Overbought appeared first on NewsBTC. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from NewsBTC. Click here to read the full text on the original website.