 It seems the alleged ex-girlfriend of Big Brother Naija top housemate, Tobi, seems to be going wild with disclosures from the past about the reality show star, who she claimed she dated in Unilag. According to a self acclaimed Tobi’s ex-girlfriend, who expressed her bitterness after she met a Twitter user named Tobi after church. Twitter user @alexlobaloba who shared the story about the unnamed Tobi’s ex-girlfriend wrote; I met this stranger and she started telling me about how she hates Tobi #BBNaija so much, how the guy dated her back then in Unilag and also slept with her friend. I could feel the bitterness in her expression. After the conversation, she asked for my name I told her Chibuzor. I guess he cheated on her blablabla… Who cares anyways? Real life o….after church today Before now, Tobi Bakre, a 23 year old banker who graduated from Unilag, had been accused of breaking the hearts of many ladies in the school.  A Twitter user @ChiefWale_ narrated How Tobi also snatched his girlfriend from him 2 years ago. He wrote “I haven’t seen any part of the BBN yet because in transit but I hope that Tobi guy gets out of the house ASAP. The stupid boy snatched one babe from me 2 years ago.” The dark-skinned, handsome, and muscular young man is only just 23 and he from Ogun State. He is a Photographer and Investment Banker, who enjoys associating with people and playing football. The graduate of the University of Lagos is from a wealthy home and resides in one of the top-notch areas of Lagos State. Tobi Bakre made this list “Meet The Rich Kids Of Nigeria & Their Flamboyant Lifestyle” in 2013 and also in 2017. The list is reserved for the creme de la creme of the society. Aside his father’s wealth, Tobi is also doing well for himself in Investment Banking. He has been described as one of the Yoruba Demons flaunting their wealth and opulent lifestyle on social media. The post BUSTED: Tobi’s ex-girlfriend accuses him of sleeping with her friend appeared first on INFORMATION NIGERIA. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from INFORMATION NIGERIA. Click here to read the full text on the original website.