 National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), Kogi chapter, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure total independence for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) ahead of the 2019 general elections. NYCN Cairman, Mr Oladele Nihi, told newsmen on Wednesday in Lokoja, that as the umpire for the 2019 polls, scope of INEC’s independence would determine its efficiency and effectiveness in conducting the exercise. Nihi commended Buhari for the successes his administration had achieved so far in providing security, anti-corruption fight, economic development and social welfare. “We are using this medium to call on our President to append his signature to the all important Not-Too-Young-To-Run Bill as soon as the bill is transmitted to him,” he said. He also appealed to the President to reconsider his decision on the Peace Corps Bill, and see what could be done in order for the bill to get his assent. “The Peace Corps Bill is one which, when signed into law, possesses the capacity to accommodate thousands of the unemployed youths in the country. “The Bill will also complement the efforts of other security agencies in the fight against crime and insecurity which the Buhari government is very serious about. “We appeal that the President and other stakeholders should sit and iron out the grey areas in the Peace Corps Bill to the benefit of all stakeholders especially the youths,” Nihi said. He also commended Buhari for his recent declaration of intent to seek re-election in 2019, saying that it was a welcomed development. “What is left now is for all interested parties to return to the drawing board to strategize for the way forward and let the people decide what they want. “Although we are optimistic about free, fair and credible elections in 2019, youths must remain steadfast and avoid being used as tools to propagate disunity among ourselves”, he added. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Nigerian Pilot News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.