Former governor of Delta State, James Ibori says the call for power shift from the older generation to the younger generation will not solve Nigeria’s problem. In an article he wrote tilted “Leadership: What has age got to do with it?” Ibori said that the political discourse surrounding the ideas that the older generation should handover power to the younger generation is something worth considering. According to him, late Chief Gani Fawehinmi was a young lawyer when he began to defend people for free and did not need a national consensus to do it. He said there was no national consensus that literary greatness should be taken from the old to the young, that was while the Wole Soyinkas, the John Pepper Clarks, and the Chinua Achebes that we celebrate today achieved greatness while they were in their youth . He noted that when the Ben Okris and Chimamanda Ngozi Adichies took over the mantle of becoming great writers, they begged for no let or leave from the old. They just did what they had to do. They tasked themselves until they achieved greatness. He faulted the call for power shift saying it was an ill-thought out solution that won’t solve any of Nigeria’s challenges. “The call for power shift from the older to the younger generation is fast gaining currency. This political discourse has occupied the public space in recent times and understandably so. The question is what level of leadership are we talking about and what age suitability should be considered; below age 40 or 50 or 60? Or even below age 30? We are yet to interrogate the idea that the failure of leadership may not necessarily be age related. “One problem that appears to have bedevilled Nigeria is the “one solution fits all” and “easy way out” syndrome. We are quick to proffer ill-thought out solutions to all our problems; transfer political power to the youths and all our problems are solved. “There was no national consensus before the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi began to defend people for free. And when he began that public service in 1969, he was a young lawyer. Let it not be forgotten that when the late Chief Anthony Eromesele Enahoro was jailed because of his struggle for Nigeria’s independence, he was just 21 years old.”   Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook