Germany Max Meyer has turned down another contract offer from Schalke, with Arsenal intersted in the player. The Royal Blues fear losing the 22-year-old for nothing this summer having already seen Leon Goretzka agree a free transfer to Bayern Munich for the end of the season. (Bild) Borussia Dortmund could miss the opportunity to sign on-loan Chelsea striker Michy Batshuayi on a permanent basis as his fine form for BVB has alerted other clubs. The 24-year-old has five goals in six games since moving to the Bundesliga in January. There is no permanent clause in the deal, however, leaving the Blues free to sell to the highest bidder. (Kicker) Meanwhile, Dortmund coach Peter Stoger is in line for a new contract in April. The former Cologne boss has impressed the BVB hierarchy since succeeding Peter Bosz in December. The 51-year-old had been viewed as a stopgap initially but has lost just one of his 12 Bundesliga matches – against Bayern Munich – since taking up the role and is set to be rewarded with a new deal beyond this season. (Bild) Spain Yannick Carrasco has denied he left Atletico Madrid for Chinese Super League side Dalian Yifang purely because of money, claiming he still wants to earn a place in Belgium’s World Cup squad this summer. The forward completed his move on Monday along with teammate Nico Gaitan, but denies not playing in Europe will hinder his chances of making Roberto Martinez’s squad. (Marca) Real Madrid target Neymar looks set to miss next week’s Champions League last-16 clash at the Parc des Princes. The Brazilian suffered a sprained ankle and a fractured metatarsal in the Parisians’ win over Marseille on Sunday. (AS) Legendary Real Madrid forward Raul has backed under-fire coach and former teammate Zinedine Zidane to remain at the Bernabeu beyond this season. The club’s former captain said: “He’s only been in the job for just over two years and he has already won the Champions League twice and a whole load of other trophies. You cannot really ask more of a coach. He’s under contract,” he continued. “I’d like to see him stay, without any doubt at all.” (AS) Italy Real Madrid are prepared to pay more than €150m for Lazio midfielder Sergej Milinkovic-Savic this summer. The Serbian is also attracting interest from Paris Saint-Germain and Manchester City. Lazio, meanwhile, have cancelled the clause which entitled the midfielder’s former club Genk to 50 per cent of the player’s next transfer fee. Lazio president Claudio Lotito has satisfied the Belgian side by paying €9m up front. (Il Messaggero) Sunday’s Derby della Madonnina has increased in significance with the suggestion Internazionale captain Mauro Icardi should be fit for the game, which could be his final match against Milan as Nerazzurri captain. The Argentine forward has missed Inter’s last four Serie A fixtures but should return on Sunday at San Siro. However, the match could be his final Milan derby as the Manchester United target will be available for €110million between July 1-15 due to a clause in his contract. (Corriere della Sera) Juventus midfielder Kwadwo Asamoah looks set to end his association with the Bianconeri this summer by joining Inter on a three-year deal worth €2.5million per season. The versatile Ghanaian, 29, has been at the Allianz Stadium since 2012 but has made just 11 Serie A starts this season. (Tuttosport) France Paris Saint-Germain teenager Yacine Adli is on the radars of Arsenal, Juventus and Barcelona. The 17-year-old will cost £250,000 at the end of his deal, and reports from France suggest Adli is not convinced about the prospect of joining countryman Arsene Wenger at the Emirates Stadium. (L’Equipe) France could be without Bayern Munich winger Kingsley Coman for this summer’s World Cup. The 21-year-old has undergone surgery for a partial rupture of his ankle ligaments and is now facing a race against time to be fit for Russia. (L’Equipe) The post Football Papers: All The Latest Football News And Transfer Gossips This Evening appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.