  •Ellen Johnson Sirleaf Africa leadership prize has not lifted the standard of governance When the indices fall and the people mourn, the underlying factor is failure of leadership. In Africa, this has been a constant motif, a marker of continent almost in a manic romance with decadence. Even when news cheers the heart, it hardly points to a transformational experience, but more to relief, a sigh that things are not worse. Africans are compelled to see the cup half full than half-empty because the former indicates that things have not dropped down the precipice. Perhaps it is in that spirit that the Mo Ibrahim Prize recently conferred on the former Liberian president must be received. Liberia is nowhere near its promised land. That land of peace and plenty does not even wink in the horizon. Yet we must admit that she brought an energy and vision and level-headedness to her stewardship that we cannot begrudge her this moment of joy. Many have brought great flair to the work of governance but have failed to lift their societies on this continent, partly because of the countervailing forces of retrogression. We can identify Amilcar Cabral of Guinea Bissau and Patrice Lumumba of the Republic of Congo, two men whose patriotic levers proved impotent when neo-imperialist forces mowed them down. It makes some political analysts to wonder if the world’s supposedly ancient continent is not willed to what Joseph Conrad called the “night of first ages.” In awarding the prize, the Mo Ibrahim Prize Committee cited Sirleaf’s “Exceptional and transformative leadership, in the face of unprecedented and renewed challenges, to lead Liberia’s recovery following many years of devastating civil war. Salim Ahmed Salim, a distinguished statesman and African intellectual, was the committee chair and he had this to say: “Ellen Johnson Sirleaf took the helm of Liberia when it was completely destroyed by civil war and led a process of reconciliation that focused on building a nation and its democratic institutions,” adding that “throughout her two terms in office, she worked tirelessly on behalf of the people of Liberia.” He also noted that “such a journey cannot be without some shortcomings and, today, Liberia continues to face challenges. Nevertheless, during her 12 years in office, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf laid the foundations on which Liberia can now build.” The former Liberian leader is the fifth recipient of the soaring honour which comes with a cash prize of $5 million to be spread over 10 years and $200,000 annually for the rest of her life. Johnson Sirleaf receives this prize after a dry patch of five years when no African leader was counted worthy of the accolade. She took over office as the nation’s leader after the civil war that turned a once quiescent country warm with flowing human blood. She is credited with reconciling a riven people. Ironically she had to fight to nullify the verdict of the Truth and Reconciliation Committee that banned her from seeking elective office. Yet on her watch, Liberia was the only country out of 54 that improved in every category and sub-category of the Ibrahim Index of African Governance. She was president from 2006 to 2011 on her first term and 2012 to 2017 in her second. She is succeeded by the ex-football international George Opon Weah. The previous winners include former Namibian President Hifikepunye Pohamba (2014), Former cape Verde President Pedro Pires (2011), former Botswana President Festus Mogae (2008), and former Mozambique President Joaquim Chissano. The former Liberian leader won this award in a season when two countries, South Africa and Zimbabwe flushed out two exemplars of tyranny and decadent comedy in governance. We hope they signal better times for leaders as Sirleaf, a Harvard graduate and recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize and Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and development, savours this new garland.  The post Deserved but… appeared first on The Nation Nigeria. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Nation Nigeria. Click here to read the full text on the original website.