 All a Pulse lover has to do is swipe, swipe, and swipe on the beautifully designed story stack on the app Following a successful testing phase which saw the app garner good reviews from enthusiasts, the simple, fun-to-use app was launched on both iOS and Android App Stores. This Pulse Buzz has been built from the ground, to help you stay informed, inspired, and entertained. All a Pulse lover has to do is swipe, swipe, and swipe on the beautifully designed story stack on the app to stay connected to the most exciting stories and videos. You won’t have to swipe for long though. A powerful Personalisation Feature. The Pulse Buzz app, powered by machine learning, is designed to study the things you enjoy, and bring the important stories to you, faster, and in a fun and amazing way. All the entertaining content you love, personalised just for you. So the more you use the app, the more the app brings the stories you love closer to you! The Multitasking Feature. Because you love to enjoy content on the go, this new app is designed to help you get the best of two worlds. You’ll be able to watch a video on the app, while also reading an article. The awesome app makes this possible by helping you shrink the video to just a part of the screen, so there’s enough room to enjoy the latest stories. “We tried to focus on the most important things our community of fans and readers asked for with the new app,” said Tim Kollmann, Managing Director of Ringier Africa Digital Publishing, “so we built one that was entertaining, fast and data-friendly. An app that tailors all the best content just for you, in a fun and amazing way.”  Here’s a summary of all the new features: About Pulse.ng Pulse.ng is Nigeria’s leading new media publisher, giving the latest news in everything from breaking news, gists, to entertainment and lifestyle. Besides creating amazing content on Pulse.ng, Pulse also runs the largest network of verticals across all social networks in Nigeria.With the video team, Pulse offers extensive coverage of events and exclusive interviews to daily snippets of news. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from pulse.ng - Nigeria's entertainment & lifestyle platform online. Click here to read the full text on the original website.