The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on Tuesday wielded the big stick on some telecoms operators which were found to be involved in call masking and refilling by suspending their operational licences. It also barred 750,000 phone numbers that were registered with some of the telecoms operators and used in carrying out the illegal practice of call masking and refilling. NCC had earlier identified six telecoms operators involved in call masking and refilling to include Medallion Communications Limited; Interconnect Cleaning House Nigeria Limited; Niconnx Communication Limited, Breeze Micro Limited; Solid Interconnectivity and Exchange Telecommunications Limited and had threatened outright revocation or suspension of their licences after wide consultation. Call masking and refilling is an attempt by operators to hide the actual telephone numbers of callers when routing calls, especially international calls, which are not charged, because the caller’s identity is completely hidden on the network. The various sanctions were made known in a statement signed by Tony Ojobo on Tuesday. The commission also barred over 750,000 numbers assigned to several Private Network Links and Local Exchange Operator licensees. The licensees whose numbers were barred are Vezeti Communications Services Limited, Voix Networks Limited, Mobitel Limited, Peace Global Satellite Communications Limited, ABG Communications Limited and Vodacom Business Africa (Nigeria) Limited. Others are Swift Telephone Networks Limited, QVODA Telecoms Limited, Wireless Telecoms Limited and Emcatel Networks Limited. The commission found that some of these firms were terminating millions of minutes, whereas they only had very few active customers, Ojobo added. The post Call Masking: NCC Sanctions Telcoms Firms, Bars 750,000 Numbers appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.