 As a child EmmanueI Ikubese’s dream was to become a soldier or naval officer, but that changed as he grew older and fell in love with acting. And then Nollywood beckoned. The graduate of International Relations from United States International University, Nairobi, Kenya, started acting professionally seven years ago. He has won several awards, including the Lagos Fashion Awards, Ambassador for Peace Awards and Most Promising Actor at City People Awards among others. According to him, “I had always had a passion for entertaining people. I started off as a DJ in the university, a model, a singer and finally ventured into acting while doing several TV commercials in Kenya before I finally got my big break as an actor. I got my first major TV role as an actor in 2011, when I played the role of Femi in MTV’s hit series Shuga season 2 that was shot in Kenya. Initially, it was tough and new for me. My first role was a lead character. But I was willing and ready to learn and asked a lot of questions. I’m grateful to the producers and directors and cast of MTV’s Shuga, who helped me throughout the shoot.” “I love acting because it makes me to portray another character and has a lesson to teach society. I am always willing to learn and love to try out new things and new ideas. I criticise my work a lot because I believe I can always do better. I see constructive criticism as a way of making me improve on the job.  I think an attitude of learning helps you become a better actor.” Ikubese, who looks up to veterans in the Nigerian film industry like Richard Mofe-Damijo (RMD), Ramsey Noah and international actors like Denzel Washington, Will Smith and other great actors, said apart from acting, he is into business and real estate. “I am working on a couple of projects, which I will reveal later,” he said. “The best advice I have ever received is to always put God first. My advice to upcoming actors is to be focused, work hard, master your craft and be open to learning because there is no end to learning.” Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Guardian Nigeria Newspaper – Nigeria and World News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.