Jim Iyke has opened up on his relationship with Rita Dominic. In an interview with Broadway TV, Jim Iyke says he loves and respect Rita a lot and they had a thing together but they have never spoken with each other for up two years. He disclosed how they met and said the moment they spent together was priceless. “Rita and I met when I was just beginning to embrace fame, and the comforts that came with it. The laurels, the distraction, even the destruction. “And Rita is not the kind of woman that hangs around a lot. We were very deep with each other. We still are great-friends though we don’t speak constantly. As a matter of fact, it may surprise you that we haven’t spoken to each other in over two years. But when we meet, we are cordial,  and respectful. There is that deep rooted thing of a man or woman you shared something with. “We come from the same circle, she knows too much of what I know and I think I know too much of what she knows. You need that opposite attraction to survive the kind of life I live now. I want to come in and hear about your day, I don’t want to repeat what I have done with you. “I need to learn new things from you, I need you to teach me new tricks, and I need to, at least, pretend to be interested in what you are talking about in the evening. A dead giveaway is the fact that I do know what you are talking about, I can fathom and predict it and I can end it, I don’t want that kind of life. I want someone that is entirely different from my world, someone that can bring me to order. The amazing relationship I had before now didn’t work for special reasons and it is obviously because of that. I don’t want a drama queen, I just need a woman that will come to me with something different all the time, I don’t want a predictable life,” Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook