Neymar Jr., the world’s most expensive footballer, was stretchered off 10 minutes from time at the Parc des Princes on Sunday night as Paris Saint-Germain beat Marseille 3-0 and opened up a 14-point lead in Ligue 1. The 26-year-old was on his own when he innocuously rolled his ankle and flopped to the ground in pain. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span><span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> “The first examination in the locker room revealed that it was a twist to the ankle. Now we will do a medical examination to find out what this twist is,” said Unai Emery, whose team face Real Madrid at home on March 6 in the Champions League last 16 where they need to overturn a 3-1 deficit. “We will wait for the examination, we will be optimistic. If I had to say today (whether or not he will face Real) I would rather say yes to being optimistic. PSG skipper Thiago Silva told Canal+ added: “Neymar already had a swollen ankle. I’m not a doctor, but I don’t think he’ll be available on Wednesday (when PSG face Marseille again in the French Cup). He has to rest.” It was an otherwise easy night for the big-spending Parisians as teenager Kylian Mbappe became the youngest scorer in the French ‘Classique’. Uruguayan goal-machine Edinson Cavani was also on the scoresheet while Neymar had a hand in PSG’s other goal. With Monaco drawing 3-3 at Toulouse on Saturday and Lyon held 1-1 at home to local rivals Saint-Etienne earlier on Sunday, it meant none of PSG’s three nearest challengers managed to win. Monaco remain second with Marseille third, two points behind, and Lyon a further five adrift. This result was never in doubt and Emery even had the luxury of bringing off Mbappe, 19, after an hour to give Argentine international Angel Di Maria a half-hour run out. PSG were off to a flying start through Mbappe but Marseille were in part the architects of their own downfall. France midfielder Adrien Rabiot tried to thread a through ball on 10 minutes to Mbappe, cutting in from the right. The post Neymar suffers ankle injury, big blow to PSG appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.