Jose Mourinho seems to break this old pattern of staying three years at one team by signing a new contract with Manchester United that will hold until 2020 with the option to prolong it for another year afterwards. In his first season coaching the ‘Red Devils’, Jose Mourinho won the Europa League title and the EFL Cup and the current season sees his team on the second place in the FA Premier League and also competing against Sevilla for a place in the last-8 teams in the UEFA Champions League. Considering the position he’s in, Jose Mourinho has all the reasons to stay with Manchester for at least another two seasons because he could get them more than just the Europa League title. It’s no secret to anyone that the Portuguese has a three-year pattern that, willingly or not, applies at any club he coaches. Jose Mourinho Man UTD three-year period started with buying top players such as Ibrahimovic, Lukaku and Pogba which brought him and his team the Europa League title. Then, in the second year, Mourinho usually works on building the team even more and perfecting the play relations within the team. This second season usually gets silverware as well but could possibly be a bit modest compared to his first season. And the situation seems to stand so far for Jose Mourinho because his chances of getting the Premier League are quite low and the UCL is still a far way to go. It’s usually in his third and final season with a team when Jose Mourinho really unleashes his true potential and wins a lot of trophies, giving fans and owners what they want. And after all this glory for Jose Mourinho, staying true to the ‘quiet while you’re ahead’ slogan, he sets to find another challenge. Not something easy like a slot no deposit bonus, that’s more of a Rooney’s thing. Well, it seems that Manchester United bosses intend to put an end to the three year-cycle with this new contract that is due in 2020 and could possibly be prolonged until 2021 if everything goes well for the Portuguese. In a recent statement, right after he signed the new contract, Jose Mourinho declared that he feels privileged to be able to work with such a fantastic group of players and that he knows there are very high standard that he set but that’s the only way it could be with a team such as Manchester United. Jose Mourinho continued and said that he is fully aware that they are creating the perfect conditions for an extraordinary future at Manchester United and that he loves his players and is delighted to be together with them for at least another three years. This contract renewal comes in a perfect moment for Jose Mourinho and Manchester United as well since only recently they were able to secure Alexis Sanchez from Arsenal. They were negotiating with the gunners for quite a long time and they finally agreed with a swap of Henrikh Mkhitaryan for Sanchez and everyone at Manchester United, especially Jose Mourinho is thrilled for the Chilean attacker to be part of the team.    Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook