Old plastic toys, including lego, dinosaur figurines and dolls, can contain dangerous levels of toxic chemicals, according to the first study of its kind.Out of a sample of 200 trinkets found in homes, nurseries, schools and charity shops, more than 10 per cent contained high levels of hazardous elements that can be toxic at low amounts and would not be approved for sale today, a study found. Children are thought to be more at risk of poisoning from hazardous elements as their organs are still developing and they are more likely to put non-edible objects in their mouths. The findings were published in the journal Environmental Science & Technology. Lead author, Dr. Andrew Turner from the University of Plymouth, said: “Second-hand toys are an attractive option to families because they can be inherited directly from friends or relatives or obtained cheaply and readily from charity stores, flea markets and the internet. “The attractive cost, convenience and recyclability of previously used toys has the potential to create a legacy of chemical contamination for younger children.”
Since 1995 toys must comply with the Toy Safety Directive, which includes safe hazardous element levels, to be sold in the EU. There is no regulation regarding the recycling or re-sale of old toys. The researchers analysed toys found across the south-west of England.Such toys were made of plastic and were small enough to fit in young children’s mouths; or were made up of removal parts.The researchers used specialist X-ray fluorescence scans to detect levels of hazardous elements. Results further reveal 26 of the toys analysed contained high concentrations of hazardous elements if they are exposed over an extended period of time.Several of the toys even released bromine, cadmium and lead at levels that exceed those set by the European Council’s Toy Safety Directive. Turner said: “This is the first systematic investigation of hazardous elements in second-hand plastic toys in the UK.“Second-hand toys are an attractive option to families because they can be inherited directly from friends or relatives or obtained cheaply and readily from charity stores, flea markets and the internet. “But while the Toy Safety Directive applies to new products there is no regulation covering the recycling or re-sale of older toys. “Consumers should be made more aware of the potential risks associated with small, mouthable old plastic toys or components. “Without that, the attractive cost, convenience and recyclability of previously used toys has the potential to create a legacy of chemical contamination for younger children.” According to the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there is no safe amount of lead exposure as the metal can damage nearly every part of the body. In many cases, lead exposure causes no symptoms, however, some suffer confusion, seizures and even death. Mercury exposure in humans is normally obtained by eating fish and shellfish or the animals that eat them. Shark, swordfish and tuna contain particularly high levels and should be avoided by pregnant women. High exposure can damage people’s brains, hearts, kidneys, lungs and immune systems. In young children, this may also harm their developing nervous systems and cause learning difficulties. Symptoms include reduced peripheral vision, lack of coordination and muscle weakness. Arsenic is found most commonly in shellfish, rice and fresh produce. Such poisoning can be life-threatening and cause symptoms including vomiting, vertigo and delirium. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Guardian Nigeria Newspaper – Nigeria and World News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.