By Emmanuel Ndukuba Awka,
Innoson Kiara Academy has commenced training of 200 Niger Delta youths in automobile fitting to meet the needs of the country’s labour market. The exercise was flagged off at the factory auditorium Nnewi, Anambra State on Friday with an induction programme for the participants drawn from different states. The Chief Executive Officer of Innoson Kiara Academy,  Endi Ezengwa, while addressing the participants said the Academy was a citadel for youth empowerment with technical and vocational skills’ acquisition. “We facilitate training that enables trainees to understand the need for total rehabilitation in education for empowerment in automobile industry, he said. According to him, the trainees are expected to undergo training in auto mechanicals, electrical/electronics, fabrication, welding, painting and spraying. “At the end of the exercise, they will develop their capabilities and independence toward becoming full participants in creating successful future. “Through our shared efforts, we will nurture and empower the trainees and staff of the academy to actively apply their talents and knowledge in the world of today and tomorrow,’’ Ezengwa said. The Coordinator, Jamub Global Services Ltd., Abuja, Sunny Wachir kelek, said 600 youths were being trained in partnership with Innoson Kiara Academy. He noted that the amnesty programme had impacted positively on many lives in the course of the training as they looked forward to better days, calling for more empowerment opportunity for youths. Some beneficiaries, Sunny Akpignovwu from Delta State, Gloria Horsefall (Rivers), Sunray Emmanuel Oluwadaesi (Ondo), Opuofoni Clarkson (Bayelsa), urged others to be patient, while appealing to the Federal Government to make the scheme a “continuous life-changing programme for all Niger Delta Youths’’. The post Innoson commences training of 200 Niger Delta youths appeared first on BusinessDay : News you can trust. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from BusinessDay : News you can trust. Click here to read the full text on the original website.