Every day on the Nigerian internet, there are people who keep our eyes glued to our phone screens as we read their rants, opinions, perspectives on political and social matters, etc. Sometimes, they are just downright ridiculous. We make it our job to take down the names of these noisemakers. Here’s our list from today: 1. Bisi Alimi The human rights activist reacts to the remarks that Nigerian actors should have been in the movie: Black Panther.  Let’s take a break here. You can criticise some actors quite alright, especially those who have been in the industry for a while and yet have not learned anything but, categorising all of them as one whole bunch of “screaming and shouting actors” does not sound right – at all! 2. Aisha Yesufu Still fighting to ensure the release of the Chibok girls, another set of over 50 girls are abducted and the co-convener of the BBOG movement says:  No, in Nigeria, we cannot afford to lose such opportunities. We have to go for it! It is just pitiful. Over 50 girls are abducted all we can do is try to politicise it too. 3. Ben Murray-Bruce The word failure is not a good enough word to describe this administration in providing security and the Bayelsa Senator highlights it:   Let’s pick some lines from a YNaija writer on the Dapchi girls abduction: “The terrorists appear to sense a potential cash cow in their trade and they will be setting up table for next round of negotiations. It is a wretched situation that brings into question the so-called “tactical” or “complete” victory in the war against Boko Haram and any further calls to dig larger holes in the nation’s treasury under the guise of prosecuting the war. 4. Uche Maduagwu Who has not said what this self-proclaimed ‘most popular’ Nigerian actor is saying now?  However, one good thing about the social media is that YOU CAN BLOCK someone when you do not like the person’s posts or comments. There is no reason whatsoever why you should continue following the person while the cloud of anger continues to hover over your head, it does not even make sense. Meanwhile, we are actually the ones allowing Bobrisky remain in the news – if you know what I mean. 5. Garba Shehu  6. Chiwuba  Good question. 7. Dipo Awojide  No! We cannot!! Together, hopefully, we would continue to try to solve our problems. Read » Today’s Noisemakers: Bisi Alimi, Ben Murray-Bruce on #DapchiGirls, Uche Maduagwu, others on YNaija Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from YNaija. Click here to read the full text on the original website.