Every day on the Nigerian internet, there are people who keep our eyes glued to our phone screens as we read their rants, opinions, perspectives on political and social matters, etc. Sometimes, they are just downright ridiculous. We make it our job to take down the names of these noisemakers. Here’s our list from today: 1. Adeyanju Deji Unlike the Nigerian Senate, the House of Representatives adopted the harmonised version of the amended Electoral Act without any disagreement. The amendments, if eventually signed by the president, will make some changes in Nigeria’s electoral act including reorganising the sequence of the forthcoming 2019 elections. The federal lawmakers want their election to come up first, followed by that of state lawmakers and governors, and lastly the presidential election. And the convener for Concerned Nigerians has something to say:  However, INEC says they will only follow the timetable they have already announced. Then, we have to ask two questions: How will the new timetable ensure free and fair elections? And will President Buhari assent to the bill? 2. Santos Akhilele The problem with locking away emotions is that you may start to lock away even the good ones, as well. You may not realise it at first, but there are plenty of things that happen to us when we hide our feelings that expose how we really feel deep down. Santos just gave us one:  Hopefully, Santos’ friend would learn to be more open, express the pain, probably see a mental health doctor. 3. Yung 6ix  Probably a reaction to Davido’s intention to make his signees record label owners. 4. Omojuwa As Social Media Week 2018 is underway, Omojuwa has something to say.  Who else has this experience? Always a good thing to find a platform to network… 5. Adekunle Gold  Having given us several nice tracks – argue with me – the singer shows his gratitude. 6. Kolade  Ohoh! Who is our Minister of Petroleum again? Read » Today’s Noisemakers: Adeyanju Deji, Yung6ix, Omojuwa, others on YNaija Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from YNaija. Click here to read the full text on the original website.