The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) of planning to rig the 2019 general election. This was disclosed by the PDP national chairman Uche Secondus during the 78th National Executive Committee (NEC) Meeting of the Party at PDP National Headquarters, Wadata Plaza, Abuja The PDP boss said they were ready to let the world know that INEC was  prepared to rig elections in 2019.  He accused INEC of doing everything on the negative side against Nigerians to rig elections in 2019. “You are aware that in the last local government election in Kano States, that the under aged voted and never in the history of any election in the world would you take children out en-mass and you give them voter’s card to vote in an election. It happened in 2015, it will not happen again in 2019. “If they don’t have enough explanation to give to Nigerians, then we shall call on the international community to look at the electoral body. We are ready, determined and resolved to resist all the illegalities in this country,” Secondus said amidst a prolonged applause from party faithful gathered at the NEC hall of the party. “Our experience shows clearly that over the years, gradually power came from all the 120,000 polling units, and all the 9,000 wards down to our national Secretariat at Wadata and Wadata became so powerful that it could decide whatever and that taking decisions at the local level didn’t matter. “We have agreed and resolved that we are going to take the power back to the people. Let the people make their choices and let them decide and take their decision so that the party can be strengthened not here at Wadata. What is important and what we are going to emphasize is at the polling units and electoral wards. That is where the votes will come from and that is where the votes will be counted. “We must encourage our members, our constituencies to get their voter’s cards which INEC is in charge of. We are coming up with data on details of distribution and how they have cornered some of these voters’ cards to the Internally Displaced Persons (IDP’s) camps “We have also developed a new reward system. In the time past, people will labour and work for the party; others will come and enjoy it. Unless you deliver your units, unless you deliver your constituency, you may not be recognized because what counts is the number of votes.” Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook