Gee-whiz, another week and we already have news of yet another international criminal investigation taking place in the country. This time, it involves two Lebanese businessmen who have been accused by the US of “illegally exporting items to Hezbollah, which it classified as a terrorist organisation,” reports News24. In case you have no idea, Hezbollah is a Shi’a Islamist political party and militant group based in Lebanon Usama Darwich Hamade, 53, was arrested at his Kempton Park home, while his bother Issam Hamade, 55, was arrested at OR Tambo International Airport after he arrived from abroad. The two are expected to appear at the Kempton Park Magistrate’s Court on Monday, for allegedly illegally exporting components of drones: The details emerged during a press statement last week, made by the US Attorney’s office for the District of Minnesota.  It detailed how Issam Hamade [above], also known as Prince Sam and who previously claimed to be Lebanese royalty, “allegedly lied, saying digital compasses for drones were needed in SA for anti-poaching operations”: And South Africa, according to a US indictment, was a “transit point through which some of these items – including items which could be used in drones – were channelled”: Others countries involved in the case include Japan, Germany and Lebanon: In SA, the Hawks, Crime Intelligence, and Ekurhuleni Metro Police have been involved. It was confirmed last week Tuesday, by national police spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo, that the brothers were in custody: Naidoo left it at that and would not divulge any further information, including whether more arrests were expected in SA. You can read more about the accused’s alleged actions here. [source:news24] Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.