President Muhammadu Buhari has advised Nigerians not to forget easily that the country was at a stage of collapse before he took over as the President. The president stated this when he hosted top members of the All Progressive Congress at the presidential villa in Abuja. According to the president, Nigeria was fast heading for a state of collapse before he took over and salvage the situation. He said It is easy to forget the fuel subsidy fraud, arms fund diversion, depleted excess de Account savings, depleted foreign reserves, massive unpaid debts to contractors and suppliers amidst failure to invest or even maintain Nigeria’s infrastructure( railways, roads, electricity,) in-spite of having earned over US$500 billion from Oil and Gas alone, during the 16 years of PDP rule. “Lest we forget, we must always remind ourselves of the dire situation in which we came to office” he said He thanked the APC for the successes achieved in the 2015 elections in securing majority of the states, majority in the national assembly and majority in the state assemblies. And asked them to remember that the success of 2015 would not have been achieved without the unity of purpose the party exhibited in challenging and defeating an incumbent government. He pleaded with party leaders to remain steadfast despite distractions and antics of the opposition, especially now that INEC has come out with the timetable for elections in 2019. “This unity and success are needed now more than ever, because elections are now looming. “We should strictly follow the constitution of the Party in undertaking these party elections. We should ensure internal democracy and avoid shortcuts and illegal maneuvers which have characterized the opposition party with the consequences that they are now divided. “The APC has a history of conducting free and fair primaries whenever consensus about any candidacy is not reached. Regardless of the outcomes of the primary processes, it is imperative that we all work together to ensure the victory of our party.” Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook