The Lagos Music Festival, Gidi Fest has finally announced its 2018 line-up. Taking place at the Hard Rock Café Beach Front on Good Friday, 30th March, the festival would be headlined by Wizkid and 2face, giving a strong showing for the best of our home grown talent. They will be flanked by a carefully curated and diverse line-up of the some of the most sought after Nigerian acts making waves across the globe, Maleek Berry, Ycee, Adekunle Gold, Brymo, Show Dem Camp and Mayorkun. This year, the organisers are introducing a second stage that will raise up the Next Gen of very talented artists that are moving the underground and redefining the Nigerian sound. The new wave will be represented by D-Truce, Makka, Remmy Baggins, Lady Donli, D-O, CHYN, Jinmi Abduls, Jamal Swiss. The festival has in previous years featured African and international acts and this year will be no different so stay tuned for the second announcement that will fortify the Gidi Culture Festival as the foremost and most progressive music festival on the continent that has set out to empower the youth and bridge the gap on and off the continent.  Tickets are ON SALE now. Head to www.gidifest.com for more information and accredited resellers. Gidi Fest originated in Lagos in 2014, moving between various sites before settling in its current home, Hard Rock Café beachfront, at Landmark Village, Oniru. Where it will attract approximately 10,000 people over 2 days. GidiFest2018 is brought to you by Eclipse Live Sponsored by Hard Rock Café, Pepsi, Power Horse and supported by Universal Music, Eko Hotel, Virgin Atlantic, Mikano The post Gidi Fest 2018 Announce Line Up, Featuring Wizkid, 2Face, Adekunle Gold And Many More appeared first on 360Nobs.com. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.