By Ayo Onikoyi Veteran gospel singer, Skid Ikemefuna, who describes himself as an Ambassador for Christ opened a can of worms a couple of days ago when he posted on his Facebook page that “Many popular young Nigerian musicians have sold their souls to Satan for fame and money”. Immediately the post was shared, people invaded his timeline, demanding to know what his proofs were. The gospel singer who lost his wife in a motor accident four years ago defended himself by urging people who attacked him on his summation to Google “Illuminati” “Please Google Illuminati… Nigerian members, actors, musicians, pastors. Visit YouTube,” he said. In other posts the singer reiterated his claim by stating, “ You will be amazed at how many Nigerian musicians that are members of Illuminati”. He mentioned Kanye West, Jay Z and others as being members of Illuminati, claiming the Beyonce’s beau has even confessed that he is a member of Illuminati. Recall that Jay Z’s album of 2017 heated up the Illuminati theory with the track song “4:44”, with people interpreting the title of the song as a sign of the singer affirming his membership of the secret society. When the argument was nearly tearing the world apart, Jay Z waded in that “4:44” was so titled because it was the time he got  up in the morning to write the song. Many Nigerian singers, politicians and even pastors have been accused of being members of the society. D’Banj, P-Square, Wizkid, Tonto Dikeh, 2Face Idibia and a host of others have not been spared. According to Wikipedia, The Illuminati is a name given to several groups, both real and fictitious. Historically, the name usually refers to the Bavarian Illuminati, an Enlightenment-era secret society founded on 1 May 1776. The society’s goals were to oppose superstition, obscurantism, religious influence over public life, and abuses of state power. The post Many popular young Nigerian musicians have sold their souls to Satan   – Skid Ikemefuna appeared first on Vanguard News. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.