Kampala, Uganda | THE INDEPENDENT | The word’s fertility experts head to Kampala this week when Uganda hosts an International infertility Symposium, the first of its kind on the African continent. The symposium is scheduled to be held at Kampala Serena Hotel February 28 to March 2 under the theme, “Infertility awareness, Access, Capacity building and management in Sub-Saharan Africa for Happy families”. The symposium will be hosted by the International Federation of Fertility Societies (IFFS), the Ministry of Health and Uganda Fertility Society. Infertility is a disease of the reproductive system defined by the failure to achieve a clinical pregnancy after 12 months or more of regular unprotected sexual intercourse. It is a reproductive disease that affects both men and women, with the The World Health Organization indicating that 50% of infertility is as a result of the male factor. “For the first time, an international conference of this magnitude will be held in sub-Saharan Africa. This provides a unique opportunity for Africa’s infertility care providers, trainers, researchers and policy makers to pool and share knowledge and experience with experts from across the world,” said Uganda’s State Minister for health Sarah Opendi as she announced plans to receive world experts on the subject. Minister Opendi revealed  that although Uganda has a high fertility rate, there is a big number of couples who suffer from infertility. She said that in Uganda, about 10-15% of the couples cannot have children due to infertility. About 75% of these are due to Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) which lead to blockage of fallopian tubes in women and sperm ducts among men. “This conference is an exciting time in Africa, and Uganda in particular, as we develop and evolve to become more responsive and open to new ideas in the field of infertility care. So, I hope this symposium will inspire all of us and enhance our knowledge in infertility and its treatment,” Opendi said. In 2016, the Government of Uganda with support from the MERCK Foundation launched the campaign on infertility with focus on empowering infertile women through access to information, awareness, health education, change of mind set and economic support. Government has aestablished the Women’s hospital: Maternal and Neonatal Centre at Mulago National Referral Hospital, to provide affordable specialized fertility care to the public. According to World Health Organization, one in every four couples in developing countries had been found to be affected by infertility. This prevalence is based upon patient numbers who came to the clinics requesting for assistance related to infertility.       The post Uganda hosts major infertility symposium as world fertility rates drop appeared first on The Independent Uganda:. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Independent Uganda:. Click here to read the full text on the original website.