The Kremlin is very good at denying their illegal international practices. The latest accusation? That it was involved, in some way, in the smuggling of a large amount of cocaine out of Argentina. Here are the facts: In December 2016, 390 kilos of cocaine – the “purest in the world” and valued at £44 million (R719 million) – was found in 16 suitcases in a school attached to the Russian embassy in Buenos Aires, reports Independent. Fast forward 14 months to last week Thursday, and Argentina’s government confirmed that six suspected drug traffickers had been arrested, including a former Russian diplomatic official and an Argentine police officer, reports LEX18: Here’s the luggage. I wonder what about it triggered the suspicion?    What followed was a sting of dramatic proportions, even by South American standards: Bullrich explained how three Argentine customs officials, as well as the diplomat Patrushev, travelled to Russia to monitor the delivery. It was Patrushev’s plane, after all. After the information was confirmed by Bullrich, however, things started to get a little strange.  In her official statement, Bullrich stated that the luggage was sent as diplomatic baggage, and even posted a video [above] of the suitcases being loaded onto the Moscow-bound plane: Or was it the threat of your life that stressed you out? What is less clear, however, is how exactly the drugs landed in the school, as well as the exact involvement of Russian officials before and after the heist. However, following the official confirmation of the sting from Bullrich, the Russian government denied any involvement in the sting: Blogger Maxim Mironov, whose children allegedly attend the embassy school in Buenos Aires, said that it was inconceivable that the embassy did not know what was going on in the school: So do I. Still, not as bad as trying to undermine a country’s democracy. [source:independent&lex18] Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.