Waking up with a kink in your neck can put a real damper on your day, especially if it hasn’t eased after a session of deep stretching. While it could be the result of sleeping in an unusual position, it could also be the result of a deeper problem, something called “text neck”. You know that image, the one above, that makes fun of people who are addicted to Facebook? Well, it’s a real thing: bending over to look at your phone can result in the permanent ‘creasing‘ of the skin in the neck area, headaches and migraines, explains Skin Online. Another cause of cricks in your neck is sitting all day at work. After a full day in the office, one that has you staring at your computer screen for way too long, you probably feel the need to stretch it out. However, stretching sometimes only goes so far, and long-term stress on the same part of your neck might end up damaging your cervical spine for good. Of course, prevention is key, which means that not only is it time to start practicing self-care in the form of correct posturing, but it’s also time to limit your phone habits. However, if you’re too far gone and are looking at ways to reduce your pain, biopuncture injectable therapy is an effective and inexpensive way to go about it. The procedure promotes the natural regulatory processes in the body that reduces inflammation, enhances the body’s natural immunity, and promotes healing and better health. Sounds like a dream, doesn’t it? Using diluted micro doses of plants and / or minerals, the homeopathic injectables are injected intramuscularly in one small injection site; one injection administrated into a muscle has a systemic effect on the entire body. For more localised areas, however, an application known as “Biopuncture” can be used for conditions such as an acute sprained ankle, frozen shoulder or, you guessed it, text neck. And, once applied in the area, immune enhancement and pain reduction are paramount. Not only is it cost effective, but it offers extremely positive results that will remind you once again what it feels like to be free from pain. Read more about the procedure here, and make sure to chat to Health Renewal about any concerns you have. There’s no harm in deleting Facebook from your phone, either. Do it – you’ll feel more free by the day. Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.