Governor of Ekiti state, Ayodele Fayose says Nigeria is under a clueless and rudderless federal government. In a statement made available to newsmen by his spokesperson, Lere Olayinka, Fayose advises President Muhammadu Buhari to step down and save Nigeria further hardship. He noted that President Buhari promised Nigerians that he will bring back the missing Chibok Girls and defeat Boko Haram within three months, but after more than 32 months in office, Boko Haram was still killing Nigerians, with herdsmen also on killing spree. He said it was very painful that the same Boko Haram they claimed to have defeated suddenly became strong enough to kidnap over 100 students. “Nigeria is not only looking for the remaining Chibok Girls, another over 100 innocent students have joined, this is unacceptable” he said Fayose wondered why President Buhari asked Nigerians to prepared to pay the ultimate when they are already living in hardship, getting killed everyday while seeking for something to eat. “Funny enough, a few days ago, the President called on all Nigerians to be prepared to pay the ‘ultimate price’ for the progress and unity of the nation and I wish to ask him what other price he wants Nigerians to pay. “Already, Nigerians are sacrificing their lives by getting killed while seeking what to eat. Some have even committed suicide. Yet, the same President who is enjoying all the benefits of his office is calling on Nigerians to forego personal pleasures and pay the ultimate price. “When President Buhari mounts the campaign podium, what will he tell Nigerians? Will he tell Nigerians that corruption and insecurity has not worsened than it was in 2015? Will the President say that Nigerians deserve to be buying petrol that they were buying at N86 per litre in 2015 at N180 now? “Is President Buhari going to justify that within 30 months, Nigeria’s debt that was N12.06 trillion in 2015 increased by over N10 trillion? “Fact is that Nigeria is under a rudderless federal government. Everything is now upside down, with everywhere in the country becoming insecure. What Nigerians expect in a situation like this is a clean break from this calamitous government and new breath of life, not continuation of a government lacking a direction.” Do you have something awesome to share with the world? Click here to share Do you ever have any question about anything you wish to ask and get answer? Click here to ask Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook