By Abel Udoekene Ordinary, the journey between Ketu to Obalende should not be more than 30 minutes, but rush hour situation and traffic can keep you on the road for more than an hour. From jumping on to a moving bus (because you have to learn to jump) to battling with horns of cars who sometimes behave as if they want to crush or fly over others to get home, to a self-imposed loneliness especially if you are in a bus where everyone is minding their business and your phone battery is draining faster than NEPA light. Sometimes, If you wake up very early you can beat the traffic and cruise down to your destination without stress. But the frightening tales of Lagos traffic is the beginning of wisdom. To be on a safe side, you must develop a strategy if you want to stay on top of the situation. And if you are lucky to be stuck, let me share my perspectives. I was on a journey back home yesterday and our driver tried an unfamiliar route to see how to beat the traffic, the journey was fast at the beginning but we were stuck at some point and the only way to get out was for the bus to turn back and follow the normal route, people started shouting at the driver, it was so frustrating. Turning back was not easy, because other cars had followed him and others were still driving in trying to escape the normal traffic not knowing that they were heading to more frustration. It took us about 45 minutes to leave the wrong road and those 45 minutes was fun that even when we got to the Bus stop we stood a little to continue our discussion. How did we get here?
Someone requested for change from the conductor and the conductor sarcastically replied:
“Sorry sir, there is no change, Oga is still in London” The conductor was hyper reactive, his face obviously changed due to our collective complains to the driver for taking us through an unfamiliar route. “No change, Buhari still dey London, when him come back, him go give you change” the conductor added as he struggles to hang well on the door. We started analyzing, criticising and smiling occasionally about the Nigeria project, one woman actually stood up and prayed for God to touch the heart of Buhari and change his mind from contesting in 2019 complaining that the suffering was too much. In the word of the conductors “If you see oga, tell him to come back, people are disturbing me for change, make him come provide the change where him promised us”   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook