Times have changed, and it’s no longer considered healthy to the creative mind to be housed in a cubicle like something out of a bad movie. Office Space comes to mind, and I will fight anyone who says it’s not therapeutic to take a baseball bat to a faulty printer. Sorry, I’m working through my issues. Here in the Mother City creativity abounds, and people are finally catching on to the idea that the office you work in plays a large part in how much productivity takes place. We decided to do a little digging and found seven spots that stand out from the rest. Yours didn’t make it – sorry for you. The Planet Art: The Planet Art is an established, upmarket commercial office space and creative hub situated centrally in Cape Town in a quiet cul-de-sac, just off Kloof Street and close to amenities such as MiCiTi bus stops, lifestyle centre, Molten Toffee and Spar. The office shares the use of their spacious and tastefully furnished communal areas, courtyards, kitchen areas and meeting spaces. Cartel House, 113 Loop Street: Home to Inner City | Ideas Cartel, Café du Cap, Boost Bar Gym, Lock Stock & Barrel, Cartel House Hotel and Made Agency.  With their origins steeped in coworking, they look to facilitate everyday experiences that ensure the person passing you by, may just be your next business partner, supplier, customer or even a friend. The Foundry: The Foundry, located in De Waterkant, has office space available to let. The Foundry is also home to the well-known restaurant Beluga, and offers tenants the opportunity to work in a very trendy area with many amenities. 71 Waterkant Street: Home to Hemelhuis, Out of Office Hub, the original Inner City | Ideas Cartel and Cartel Rooftop Bar. Interesting fact – the church that shares the land is a national heritage site.  This one is all about encouraging and inspiring entrepreneurs to change how they think about work, how they work, and where they work. They are a member network, working together for a better quality of life and work, for a better result, and ultimately, a better world. The Africa Hub: Inspired by the fast-paced travel industry where no two days are the same, The Africa Hub is a shared work environment offering a dynamic range of options. Each of the six offices has the privacy you need to put your head down and get things done, with all the benefit of having like-minded people on your doorstep to bounce around ideas and seek advice. Located in the upper Salt River, the neighbourhood that borders Woodstock . ICiii: IC | ICiii offers uniquely designed spaces with an array of services and opportunities – from hot desk rentals right through to shared workspaces and private offices, as well as boardroom and meeting room facilities. They provide the urban entrepreneur with all the amenities they require to carry out almost any type of business practice.  The latest space will boast modern day glass and steel structures combined with old world wood and leather elements. Akro: Akro is a company dedicated to helping entrepreneurs turn ideas into businesses. They offer events, venture funding and consulting services, and pride themselves on a practical attitude towards entrepreneurship. That’s seven, and that’s a wrap. Like I said, sorry you never cracked it. Maybe you want to send this story to your boss in the hopes that your office raises its game.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.