 By Vanessa Obioha Lagos music fans were recently treated to beautiful performances of Fuji and Juju music by frontline musicians including Sir Shina Peters, Adekunle Gold and Ibadan based Fuji Sensation Taye Currency during the Lagos leg of the Ariya Repete concert. To the delight of the excited fans at the National Stadium in Surulere, Adekunle Gold opened his performance with ‘Orente’ before singing ‘Ariwo Ko’, following up with ‘Friend Zone’ and ending his set with the widely popular ‘Pick Up’. There was a rare display of artistry and music rendition amidst heavy percussion known with Yoruba music, as 32 contestants took turn to perform and show their music talent and stagecraft within five minutes allocated to each contestants. The judges at the concert including Champion Kunle Opio, Adebayo Faleke, Ace radio broadcaster, Alhaji Sikiru Agboola -SK Sensation, had a tough time selecting the finalist because of the plethora of talents on display. A total of 10 musicians and six drummer groups were selected to progress to the final stage where they will be competing for the grand prize of two million naira. Sir Shina Peters who will turn sixty years old on his next birthday this May, was full of energy during his performance. SSP as he is fondly called sang from his popular albums including ‘Ace’ and ‘Shinamania’ to the delight of fans. His performance was followed by Bonsue Fuji crooner, Adewale Ayuba. The highlight of the night was the performance of the Ibadan based Fuji Sensation, Taye Currency who gave a very good account of himself. Currency took time to eulogise Lagos and Ibadan cities. He also used the opportunity to sing about his relationship with Pasuma and Saheed Osupa. The concert ended with a thrilling performance from the King Saheed Osupa. Commenting on the event, Portfolio Manager, Mainstream Lager and Stout brands, Emmanuel Agu, said, “We are deeply impressed by the performance of the artistes so far and can’t wait to reveal the latest Juju and Fuji music greats to the world. That is what Ariya Repete is all about: developing and promoting indigenous Yoruba music, artistry and drumming talent, and Nigerian Breweries is glad to be leading the charge in that regard.” The event was a reunion of sort as musicians including Admiral Dele Abiodun, Segun Adewale, Champion Kunle Opio, Wale Thompson, Alhaji Kabiru Akanni popularly known as Baby Barrister. Other guests at the event were Sulaiman Ajobiewe and Dele Fagboyo, the anchor of Ajirebi TV show. Ariya Repete, an initiative of Goldberg, from the stables of Nigerian Breweries Plc is an expanded music talent hunt platform that seeks to promote and develop indigenous Yoruba music that includes Fuji and Juju music genres. The post Day Ariya Repete Came to Lagos appeared first on THISDAYLIVE.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from THISDAYLIVE. Click here to read the full text on the original website.