Yup, looks like Chris Brown and R Kelly are in the same WhatsApp group. A few weeks back we published the scandalous documentary, R Kelly: Sex, Girls & Videotapes, but if you’ve been following that man’s career over the years then there are only really a few bombshells. The same is true for Chris Brown, because he nailed his true colours to the mast when he brutally beat Rihanna back in 2009. Amazing how he gets a free pass on so many South African radio stations, though, as though that’s not at all problematic. Now a new set of allegations involving Brown have emerged, and he has been named in a lawsuit filed on behalf of ‘Jane Doe’. Here’s more from Rolling Stone, and all of this carries a trigger warning:  Oh, and it’s also alleged that Doe X was menstruating at the time. When Jane Doe went to the bathroom to wash the blood off her face, the rapper struck again: All of this is alleged to have occurred in February of last year, when Chris Brown hosted an afterparty at a recording studio. Jane Doe alleges that her phone was confiscated as soon as she entered the studio, and her phone, along with that of her friend, was then taken back to Chris Brown’s house. So how complicit was Chris Brown in all of these allegations? Well, here’s some food for thought: Chris Brown’s lawyer isn’t having it, and he says that the woman is after money, claiming that her lawyers seek a $17 million settlement. PEOPLE reports: The LAPD were actually called to the house on the night on question, although Brown wasn’t too keen to let them in. A quick check at Grissom’s Instagram account shows that the rapper isn’t very popular at the moment:  Innocent until proven guilty, goes the rallying cry, but when you consider the kind of behaviour that Chris Brown has previously engaged in, over and over again, then you start to notice a pattern. Would he allow, and actively participate, in such a brutal rape? Well, if the shoe fits… [sources:rollingstone&people]   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 2oceansvibe.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.