Barcelona are willing to pay an additional €15m (£13.2m) on top of Antoine Griezmann’s €100m (£88.2m) buyout clause to ensure his summer switch from Atletico Madrid goes smoothly. The French star has already agreed to move to the Camp Nou and wants the deal done before the World Cup gets underway. (Sport) Andreas Pereira has already returned to Manchester United after cutting his season-long loan spell at Valencia slightly short due to injury. The Belgian-born Brazilian U23 international has impressed for Los Che this term but the club are unlikely to match United’s €20m (£17.6m) valuation to make the deal permanent. (Marca) Diego Simeone has reiterated his desire to keep Liverpool transfer target Jan Oblak at Atletico Madrid. The Slovenian goalkeeper, who has a €100m (£88.2m) buyout clause in his contract, made a stunning save to deny Faycal Fajr’s penalty against Getafe and after the game the Atleti boss said: “He is among the best goalkeepers in the world, hopefully we will have him with us next season and he will be happy to be here.” (AS) Chelsea transfer target Mauro Icardi says he may leave Inter Milan this summer. A 2-1 defeat at home to Sassuolo left the Nerazzurri’s Champions League dreams hanging by a thread and with the club facing the possibility of breaking Financial Fair Play, the Argentine admits he could depart: “If it’s good for the team that I stay, then I’ll stay, otherwise I will leave.” (Sky Sport Italia) Italian legend Alessandro Nesta is set to take charge at Serie B side Perugia, who sacked their head coach Roberto Breda despite having secured a place in the playoffs. Nesta’s only previous coaching experience was with North American Soccer League side Miami FC. (La Gazzetta dello Sport) Roma have had a bid accepted by Dinamo Zagreb for attacking midfielder Ante Coric. I Giallorossi submitted a €7m (£6.1m) offer for the 21-year-old, who may be part of Croatia’s squad for the World Cup. (La Gazzetta dello Sport) Sampdoria striker Duvan Zapata, who is on loan from Napoli, is a Atletico Madrid and Borussia Dortmund transfer target. The Colombian has scored 11 times and registered six assists this term and could be available for around €30m (£26.4m). (La Gazzetta dello Sport) Paris Saint-Germain president Nasser Al-Khelaifi says Neymar will “2000 percent” remain with the Ligue 1 champions this summer. The Brazilian is a Real Madrid transfer target and is reportedly keen to move to the Bernabeu, but Al-Khelaifi is adamant he won’t be leaving anytime soon. (L’Equipe) Schalke plan to make Mainz midfielder Suat Serdar their Max Meyer replacement this summer and are willing to pay his €10.5m (£8.8m) buyout clause. (Bild) The post Daily Roundup: Latest Football News Content Across Europe appeared first on 360Nobs.com.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.