Job Osazuwa At playtime with his peers in a Lagos private school, Tosin suddenly began to bleed in the nose. There was seemed as his schoolmates and teachers had no clue of what had befallen the child. They applied all that readily struck atheir minds to stop the bleeding but the more they tried, the more the lad bled. There were accusations and counter-accusations among his playmates as to who might have hit the boy on his nose. But they all denied having personal contact with the boy. And the bot continued to bleed. It was unknown to any of the sympathisers that the eight-year-old Tosin was suffering from hemophilia until his mother was called about the development. With persistent appropriate first aid intervention, the boy was eventually stabilised and the blood stopped. According to specialists, when one has hemophilia, his or her blood doesn’t clot normally. Consequently, the body will have problems stopping bleeding, both outside and inside. The bleeding could continue for more than one week in some cases. Most of the times when you have a cut, it will take many days, sometimes weeks before it stops bleeding. Many children living with hemophilia get diagnosed of the disorder in their adulthood, while others, unknowingly, live with it forever. Even with several crises in their early age, family members would rather apply self-medication while others simply resort to spiritual help through fervent prayers and fasting. The Hemophilia Foundation of Nigeria (HFN) said more than 90 per cent of Nigerians have little or no information about bleeding disorders. The foundation called for increased awareness, as well as improvement on access to care and treatment. A general medical practitioner based in Lagos, Dr. Fapohunda Ayomide, said the good news about the disorder is that it could be treated, and the patient could lead a normal and full life, thereafter. She explained that with hemophilia type A, the patient’s body doesn’t have enough of protein called Factor VIII, which the body needs to make clots and stop bleeding, while describing it as a genetic bleeding disorder arising from faulty clotting mechanism. The medical practitioner said hemophilia could be mild, moderate, or severe, depending on how little one has of Factor VIII. “When we are talking of bleeding, it can occur externally or internally. It becomes highly risky and fatal if it occurs within a vital organ, such as the brain. People with hemophilia lack a protein called a clotting factor, which works with platelets to stop bleeding at the site of an injury. This means the person tends to bleed for a longer time after an injury, and they are more susceptible to internal bleeding,” Ayomide stated. Hemophilia A runs in families. It is usually diagnosed in babies, toddlers, or young children. However, it is said to mostly affect males. Dr. Ayomide said most of the afflicted – about 90 per cent – are ignorant of symptoms of the disease, while advising children to remain active when they are diagnosed with hemophilia. According to her, exercise makes those suffering hemophilia stronger, which makes injuries less likely. And it also helps by managing weight, she said, adding that extra pounds strain the body, which raises the risk of bleeding. Causes Hemophilia comes from one’s genes. It can be inherited from parents, grand or great grand parents. Or it can happen if a certain gene changes (mutation) before the person is born. It happens because of a defect in one of the clotting factor genes on the X chromosome. Males typically lack a second X chromosome so they are unable to make up for the defective gene. Most females have XX sex chromosomes, while most males have XY sex chromosomes. There is a rare, dangerous form of hemophilia A that is not inherited. It’s called acquired hemophilia A and it can be related to pregnancy, cancer, the use of certain medications or certain autoimmune diseases, such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. Symptoms The general practitioner listed the main symptoms one might notice in hemophilia patient as: bleeding more than normal, bruising easily, nose bleeding for no apparent reason and heavy bleeding from small injuries.
Others are heavy long-term bleeding in the mouth after a tooth is removed, bleeding from a cut or injury that starts up again after stopping and blood in urine or stool. Any wound, cut, bite, or dental injury can lead to excessive external bleeding. “When there is bleeding in a muscle or joint, it may be painful to stop. You may have swelling, and the area may feel hot to the touch. Bleeding can also happen in the brain, which is the most fatal. Other minor symptoms could be headache, neck pain and stiffness, throwing up, sleepiness, sudden weakness and problems walking,” Dr. Ayomide said. She, however, advised patients and caregivers to quickly call an expert whenever any of the symptoms appears, especially when a child bleeds for too long from a small cut, as well as when a child has a head bump even if it is minor. Diagnosis Ayomide said when a child bruises easily or bleed for longer than normal from small injuries, his or her parents should swiftly make an appointment with the child’s doctor to check if it’s hemophilia. She said: “It most unlikely for a baby younger than six months old to be diagnosed with hemophilia. The reason is that infants at that age usually don’t do things that would make them bleed. Once a baby starts moving, crawling, and bumping into things, you may notice raised bruises, especially on places like the stomach, chest, back, and bottom.” To detect hemophilia, Prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (PTT) tests are done. Factor VIII and IX tests also measure levels of proteins, while Factor VIII is for hemophilia A, just as IX is for hemophilia B. Treatment The basic treatment for excessive bleeding in people with hemophilia A and B is factor replacement therapy, which is the infusion (injection into the bloodstream) of Factor VIII and IX concentrates. Research revealed that these concentrates come from human plasma (a component of blood) or a genetically engineered cell line made by DNA technology, called recombinant. A paper on the website of Canadian Hemophilia Society said: “In both cases, the factor VIII or IX protein is nearly identical to the protein, which is lacking in the blood of hemophiliacs. After an infusion of the concentrate, all the proteins needed for clotting are in place. A hemophiliac’s blood becomes ‘normal,’ at least for a few hours. This allows the time for a clot to form at the site of the damaged blood vessel.” However, the replacement of the missing clotting factors is not permanent. Half of the clotting factor activity, which was infused, is removed by the body every 12 to 24 hours. This means that within two or three days almost none is left. Indeed, replacement therapy works in most cases, but there’s a 20 per cent chance your body will reject it. In that case, your doctors may try different sources for factor VIII or try different amounts.” There are many drugs available that help to control bleeding in adults and children. One of them is Adynovate, which is used both preventatively and as needed to create clotting and reduce the frequency of Factor VIII infusions. According to Dr. Ayomide, some patients will need regular replacement therapy in order to prevent bleeding. This is called prophylactic therapy. This is typically recommended for people with the severe forms of Hemophilia A. The medical doctor explained that treatment and management of the disease is expensive, adding that the government ought to support individuals involved for them to live normal lives. She said: “A dose of the treatment costs N75, 000 and a person may need between 10 to 50 doses to manage the disorder. “We give the dose every 12 hours, till the bleeding stops and one can imagine a person bleeding and the parents spending N1 million every 10 days for managing the disorder.” Precautions
It is advisable to tell all your neighbours, healthcare providers and school that your child has hemophilia.
Your child should wear kneepads, elbow pads, and helmets during any activities if they are doing something that might lead to injuries and cause bleeding. Use safety straps in car seats, strollers, and high chairs. Check your home and yard for hazards, like furniture or play equipment with sharp corners. Teach your child about hemophilia. Let him know when and how to get help, so he feels confident, not scared.
Doctors maintain that there is no cure for hemophilia, but there are ways to reduce the risk of excessive bleeding and to protect yourself, including regular exercise, avoiding medications like aspirin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, which are blood thinners and practising good dental hygiene. The post Hemophilia: All you need to know about bleeding disorder appeared first on The Sun News.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from The Sun News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.