By BENJAMIN NJOKU Uti Kennedy Nduka popularly known as  Yellow Banton, is currently lying helplessly at Gbagada General hospital, Lagos, and there are indications that the ailing reggae star may not leave the place  if his medical bills are  not paid on time. He underwent a blood transfusion last weekend, at the hospital. Banton who is battling with Basal Cell Carinoma,BCC, an aggressive skin cancer, had his first surgery recently and in the process lost a lot of blood. But while the surgery was successful, the reggae star is at the moment stranded at the hospital as he cannot afford to upset his bills. Seasoned actress and founder, Centre For Save Our Stars, Mabel Oboh, who’s responsible for his treatment, said Yellow Banton has been discharged from the hospital, but at the moment, the singer  cannot go home because of his inability to upset his hospital bills. Narrating his ordeal to Sidebeat, Oboh said the ailing musician needs the support of  everyone, including his colleagues in the music industry to survive this trauma. According to her, “Yellow Banton has been discharged from the hospital, but he cannot go home now because he’s homeless. That’s the dilemma we are in, and nobody is coming to his rescue.” Mabel, however, lamented the discouraging attitude of Banton’s colleagues from AJ city, accusing them of abandoning him to his fate. “Apart from Baba Fyro, no other AJ musicians have visited Yellow Banton in the hospital or contributed a dine to save his life. I am expecting solidarity funds from Nigerian musicians to save one of their own. I am feeling very disappointed with the artistes,”Oboh lamented. The seasoned actress, said Yellow Banton lost a lot of blood after the transfusion, but his condition has been stabilized at the moment. She, however, hinted that the ailing musician may be moved out of the hospital today as a result of the ongoing strike embarked upon by the health workers. “The hospital workers embarked on industrial strike on Wednesday, and they allowed him to be in the hospital till yesterday. He’s still in the hospital because we have no place to keep him. We have to secure a place that is comfortable and hygienic for him. But we don’t have the fund to pay the hospital bill and if we don’t upset the bills, the hospital management may not allow him to leave the premises,”said Oboh.  She thanked two diaspora team members, Sister Esy Oluwafemi and Dr Priscilla Okpuzor who respectively donated some money to enable them commenced his treatment. The ghetto singer, best known in the late 90’s and early millennium with his style of infusing pidgin language into reggae and successfully blending both in a unique way, was diagnosed with skin cancer in 2010. He’s popularly known for his track, “ Na Who Dey Make Them Dey Happy Onyibo.” The post Yellow Banton: Reggae star stranded after undergoing skin cancer surgery! appeared first on Vanguard News.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.