As Nigeria commemorates the 2018 International Day of the Midwife, United Nations Population Fund, UNFPA, Resident Representative Dr Dienne Keita, has  called on the government of Nigeria to provide adequate policy framework and better  working conditions for midwives to ensure improvement of maternal and neonatal indices in the country.
keita who  made this call  yesterday in Abuja at the celebration of nurses and midwives  to mark the day underscored the need to expand midwifery programmes, maintain high global standard and promote enabling environment to effectively serve the need of women and their  families..
According to Keita ,  “UNFPA strongly supports the training of midwives in more than 100 countries including Nigeria.
“In 2009 UNFPA in collaboration with partners support midwifery services and training in Nigeria.
“UNFPA also sends the National Midwifery Association to the training on how the association can enhance regular midwifery framework to ensure accountability.’’
She  noted that the theme for 2018 which is  “Midwife: Leading the way with quality care’’, resonates with UNFPA key midwife strategic direction of quality, equity and leadership, adding that the organization  in collaboration with the National Association of Nurses and Midwives provided free medical outreach to hundreds of women and children in Gwagwa and Rigasa communities in line with theme of the event.
The benefitting communities were located within the Federal Capital Territory and Kaduna State, respectively.
National President, National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives, Mr Abdulrafiu Adeniyi, decried the lingering crises and industrial action within the health sector.
Adeniyi promised that the association would work to ensure that everything was put in place to prevent industrial actions in the health sector.
He   urged  the  government and other key stakeholders to think proactively on the best way to keep industrial disharmony in health sector at bay.
Wife of the President of the Senate and Founder, Well Being Foundation, Mrs Toyin Saraki, said “We are not only celebrating the importance of midwives within the health sector but we are showing the evidence that midwives can bring the change we need to deliver quality care to people’’,  adding that the evidence shows that midwives can lead the way with quality and equity in healthcare delivery.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Nigerian Pilot News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.