By Amadie Akpabio The House leader, Akwa Ibom State house of Assembly, Rt Hon (Sir) Udo Kierian Akpan has yielded to the request of his constituents to seek re-election for a fresh term as the member representing Oruk Anam State constituency. Sir Udo Kierian Akpan accepted the request which was presented to him on behalf of the Oruk Anam people by youth groups, women groups and the National Executive and Advisory Council of Oruk Anam Grand Alliance (OGA) today when he, together with his campaign team consulted the People Democratic Party in Oruk Anam local government area of Akwa Ibom State. The Joint Meeting of OGA presided over by the President, Chief Bassey Sunday Essien had on the 19th of April 2018 resolved that due to Rt. Hon. (Sir) Udo Kierian Akpan’s pedigree, personal relationship, representation, political vision, leadership style, and human development records, he should be supported for a fresh term in office. “The Leader of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly Rt. Hon. (Sir) Udo Kierian Akpan’s pedigree, personal relationship with all and sundry, representation, political vision and mission, leadership style, human development, etc. were seriously assessed and scrutinized. He was highly favoured with an intimidating result which prompted Oruk Anam Grand Alliance (OGA) to unanimously resolve that: As a response to that call,  Rt Hon. Udo Kierian Akpan today meet with the People Democratic Party executives Oruk Anam chapter to officially inform them of his bid to seek re-election to represent the people of Oruk Anam State Constituency in the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly come 2019. He was proudly accompanied by Sir. S J. Ntefre, Pioneer Chairman, PDP, Oruk Anam LGA, Dr. Thompson Udongwo, former Executive chairman, Oruk Anam LGA, Hon. Emmanuel Essien, former Head of Council, Oruk AnamLGA, including the present, past political office holders from the area.
Welcoming the lawmaker and his entourage the Chairman people’s Democratic Party Hon pastor Jacob King, thanked Rt. Hon. Akpan for coming, while expressing satisfaction in his leadership style. The PDP chapter chairman, Hon. Pastor Jacob King also uses the occasion to warn detractors and political jobbers to refrain from using social media platforms and newspapers to make false claims on zoning, that soon the party will meet for a direction and sue for peaceful coexistence during the political process. In his response, Sir Akpan thanked the Party leadership for always opening the door for him any time he calls. He donated a Power generating set and  Seats for the party secretariat. Those who speak in affirmation include Chief Bassey Sunday Essien, Dr Thompson Udongwo and they describe the House leader as peaceful and a performing legislator. He was presented with a Holy Bible and a Vote of confidence was passed on him, with a voice motion ably moved by Hon. Uwem Ikong and seconded by Hon Idongesit Ntong in support of his super performance as described by the party faithful.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook