Ibadan – The South-West Chapter of Accord Party has called for the resignation of its National Chairman, Alhaji Mohammed Nalado, over alleged  anti-party activities.

In the alternative, the chapter told him to  convoke a meeting of  the party’s National Working Committee within seven days  so as to  constitute a disciplinary committee to probe the matter. The resolutions were  reached after the party’s zonal meeting in Ibadan on Sunday which was attended by the chairmen of the six South West states. The resolutions  read after the meeting were  signed by all the states in the zone  except Oyo  which disagreed. Olusegun Fanibe, the Chairman of the party in  Ogun, accused  Nalado of  engaging  in activities which contravene  Article 20 of the party’s constitution. “Article 20 of the party’s constitution states  that no member shall engage in acts that will bring the party to public ridicule, disrepute  and embarrassment,’’ he said. He said that Nalado had unilaterally taken the National Assembly to court without consultation or approval from the National Working Committee and National Executive Committee of the party. Fanibe also alleged  that Nalado engaged in anti-party activity by collecting money from the APC to pay the rent of the party’s national secretariat. He further alleged  that Nalado  printed his posters as an aspirant for a vacant senatorial seat in Katsina State without the party’s  logo, thereby creating the  impression that he was not contesting on the party’s platform. “This,  to a large extent,  means that he is contesting the election on the platform of another party, while he is also the national chairman of Accord Party. “In view of the above listed anti-party activities, we the leaders of the party in the south west zone  dissociate ourselves from the court proceedings instituted by the chairman in the party’s name against the National Assembly,’’ he said. He said that failure  by the chairman to adhere to the resolutions   would cause members  in the zone to meet again in two weeks to decide  their  continued membership of the party. “We are calling on our members to be steadfast.  All ongoing efforts are aimed at strengthening the party and cleansing it of saboteurs,’’ he said.  (NAN)
TAA/JPE/OJO The post Resign now, South West chapter of  Accord Party tells national chairman appeared first on Vanguard News.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Vanguard News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.