 This week the two popular Bitcoin Cash social media applications, Memo and Blockpress have rolled out a bunch of new features on each platform. Now users on both platforms can upload pictures, video, and even torrent magnets found on the Pirate Bay. Also Read: Trading Cryptocurrencies Like a Boss Takes Time and Research So far over the past couple of weeks, Bitcoin Cash (BCH) supporters have been utilizing two specific BCH-powered social media platforms — Blockpress and Memo. The Memo application arrived on the scene first during the second week of April offering BCH users the ability to write 77 character-long phrases using an on-chain method called an OP_Return transaction. Every action on Memo utilizes a transaction and an extremely small fraction of BCH and over the past few weeks; Memo has added a bunch of new features. At the end of April news.Bitcoin.com reported on Memo adding additional features like replies, emojis, and a counter for typing. The platform was getting a lot of use seeing more than 3,000 transactions in one day when the developers added the ‘reply’ feature. Now the Memo programmers have added a ‘Topics’ section a place where people can discuss specific subjects such as adding a dislike button to Memo, Christianity, BCH price predictions, flat earth conspiracies, and any topic that’s trending on the application. Moreover, on May 10, the Memo development team added image and Youtube video support to the platform. This means Memo users can upload a picture or their favorite Youtube video utilizing an on-chain BCH transaction. The very next day a user implemented a live stream video over the BCH chain using Webtorrent, Memo.cash, and Blockpress. Another added a Pirate Bay torrent magnet using Memo as well in hopes the application can be used for an “uncensorable Pirate Bay.”  Then on May 2, another on-chain BCH powered social media application was launched called Blockpress. When Blockpress launched, news.Bitcoin.com spoke with the platform’s developer who calls himself ‘Attila’ and is a big believer in the future of BCH. At launch, Blockpress offered a similar Memo-like platform but looked like a Twitter UI and had the ability to add an avatar picture, and profile cover photo. Just like Memo, the Blockpress platform enables the ability to publish 77 characters via the Bitcoin Cash network. Then three days ago the Blockpress developer added the ability to add images to posts, a notification feed, community topics, and a sidebar of your followed profiles on Blockpress. Just like the Memo application, a bunch of people are testing out the platform’s newest features. Further, Attila says after the May 15 BCH upgrade the Blockpress platform will have the ability to upload much longer content (Tumblr style — via IPFS and also a 220-byte OP_Return update on May 15). So far on both platforms, there’s a lot of users sharing their thoughts and content with Memo taking the lead on users since it was launched two weeks before Blockpress. Both BCH-based applications seem to be following a competitive path towards adding new features like images and videos. It will be interesting to see what kind of capabilities Memo and Blockpress get after the upgrade next week. What do you think about the new features on Memo and Blockpress? Have you tested any of these platforms yet? Let us know in the comments below. Images via Shutterstock, Blockpress, and Memo. Have you seen our new page, Satoshi Pulse? Check out the top 500 cryptocurrencies prices in real-time. No need to refresh as updates are automatic. The post BCH-Powered Social Media Apps  Launch New Features appeared first on Bitcoin News.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Bitcoin News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.