 This is a paid press release, which contains forward looking statements, and should be treated as advertising or promotional material. Bitcoin.com does not endorse nor support this product/service. Bitcoin.com is not responsible for or liable for any content, accuracy or quality within the press release. Hyper-localized and global crypto-bank Bitex begins token pre-sale on May 8th, 2018 Singapore — Bitex, the first locally-embedded global crypto-bank, today announced that they are launching their token pre-sale at 3 p.m. UTC, on May 8th. The pre-sale of XBX, Bitex’s utility token, will only be opened to accredited contributors in preparation for the company’s public crowdsale. Bitex’s goal is to provide crypto-banking services that operate at a local level, supplying regionally-tailored banking services to customers that are currently underserved by the current banking system. Bitex believes that it can make the greatest social impact by starting at the local level and working closely with regional experts in marketing and regulation to broaden its reach over time, giving them an edge to become the first truly global crypto-bank for mainstream consumers. Bitex’s coin will be used to provide access to the crypto-banking platform, EZBitex, and BitexPay, the payment solution for consumers and merchants. Additional services provided by Bitex include large scale business-to-business payments, crypto-currency trading and personal loans. As a reward for using Bitex, customers holding XBX will receive discounts on transaction
fees for crypto-currency exchanges. “Cryptocurrencies have arrived at a time where they can really help optimize the global banking system,” said Harith Motoshiromizu, CEO and Founder of Bitex Global. “We aim to use crypto-banking to make financial services accessible to every human on earth, starting with those who need it the most.” During the token pre-sale, XBX will be sold at 50 cents USD per coin and can be
purchased in ETH and the following fiat currencies: CHF, EUR, USD, GBP, DKK and SGD. There will be 30,000,000 available XBX tokens during the pre-sale with a soft cap of 1,000,000. About Bitex:
Bitex will become a cryptocurrency bank that will provide global, yet hyper-localized, banking services through a locally franchised platform. The company was founded a year ago and has already sold 2,760,000 USD worth of licenses in 8 different countries. Currently based in Bangkok, Thailand, Bitex will initially offer its services to customers in Asia but plans to expand its reach to more continents in the coming years. Contact Email Address
contact@bitex.global
Supporting Link
https://bitex.global/?utm_source=bitcoin_dot_com&utm_medium=press_release&utm_campaign=presale This is a paid press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release. The post PR: Bitex Launches Token Pre-Sale to Bring Global Crypto-Banking to the Local Level appeared first on Bitcoin News.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Bitcoin News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.