You attended your party’s first ever
stakeholders meeting, what was the
outcome.
Well I don’t think that was a
stakeholders’ meeting. We came in good
faith thinking that we were going to have
what is a political stakeholders’ meeting;
quite a lot of eminent Adamawa citizens
were in attendance, they took their time,
spent their money and other resources to
be able to attend this meeting. Obviously in
that meeting there were former governors,
people who have been governors long
before some of the crop of these governors.
General Kama was there, if I remember very
well he was a governor; General Maina sent
an apology, he wasn’t even invited as was
announced there; former senators, former
ministers and all patriotic and good citizens
of Adamawa state that are in APC. We all
mobilized and came for what we expected
was stakeholders’ meeting. A political
stakeholders’ meeting is a project of the
party; it ought to be a project of the party,
not the government. Because as far as the
APC constitution is concerned, and in any
democratic process the government of the
day refers to the political party on which
platform it came into power, and so the
party is supreme.
We came for this meeting expecting an
interactive session, because if you say
stakeholders’ meeting it means you have
the opportunity to participate. Of course
it’s true that senior stakeholders and the
conveners of the meeting will have the first
say, but that is just to set the ball rolling. But
what we saw was not a party stakeholders’
meeting, it was more like a government
briefing. It was one way; there was no
interaction at all!
If you could see the only reason I was
allowed to talk was because I didn’t feel
it was good to waste my time, energy
and resources given the position I have
reached in the politics of Nigeria to come
and listen to a choreographed meeting. The
meeting was choreographed. So I insisted
I must have a say. You could see there was
movement up and down when I realized
that nobody was going to ask those of us on
the lower side to talk. I insisted if I was not
given the opportunity to talk to the party
stakeholders, I would be left with no option
but to talk to the generality of the party
members through the media. Apparently
they were scared and somehow managed
to squeeze some time for me to talk. And
for those of you that were there, you could
see that when what I was saying was not
palatable to them, they first of all sponsored
noisy discussions in the congregation and
later switched off the loudspeaker and
indeed started the national anthem while I
was still having the floor.
These are all primitive ways of gagging
somebody who has a contrary view to your
own. To my mind, that is not democracy.
To my mind it’s not good for our party, the
APC. The APC as a democratic institution
in Adamawa state must have the courage
to listen to diverse opinions including
those that it finds not to be palatable. It is
the only way we can gauge the feelings of
the electorate, so that where the party has
mis-stepped it can redressed its step. That is
my feeling and that is the feelings of some
of my colleagues who share my own ideals
of party politics.
What was the issue at stake?
Obviously the governor made the whole
issue of free and fair congresses, fine and
good. As if it was coming from somebody
that has been able to carry everybody along.
But we doubt his intentions on the basis of
the feedbacks we are getting from members
of the rank and file of the party. It was
just like public relations gimmicks. And I noticed that deliberately they avoided key
issues that are very important to the success
of the Congresses and indeed the success of
the party in the general elections. I’ve always
had the view that it is not enough to win the
nomination of your party to contest election;
the ability to win the general election is very
important. And in this process, the free and
fair electoral process in which the candidate
emerged is key to the success of the party in
the general election. When one or two other
aspirants feel disenfranchised, feel they have
been deliberately marginalized, they will
work against the interest of the party. Quite a
lot of the people that aspired to some of these
political or leadership position in our party
will harm us on Election Day if they simply sit
down at home and watch television with their
families; because they are important in the
party, with the ability to mobilize electorate
in our party that look up for direction. It’s
important for our party to understand these
things. But I could see that the powers that
be at that meeting didn’t want to hear some
of these things. Zoning is at the heart of the
Constitution of Nigeria, no part of the country
should feel marginalized in any agency of the
government and indeed in any agency of the
society. It is in the APC constitution that the
federal character principle must be practiced
in the election or selection of all organs of the
party. What does this mean? It means that
every position in the 26 executive of the ward
must reflect the diversity of the ward and
that can only be done through zoning by the
stakeholders. In my speech which they tried to
drown, I did allude to the fact that if we were
to just go into an open election, it means all
aspirants are allowed to contest and it is not
unlikely that all the ward executive could
come from one village.
In my own ward there are 21 polling units; it
will be good for the party for the 26 members
of Executive, for one to come from at least a
polling unit. As such even during election the
party will have one person at a polling unit;
but they didn’t want to hear that. Adamawa
state is a multi religious, multi ethnic state.
Initially at the formation, the APC had a
chairman that is a Christian, Senator Binta
Masi Garba, from Michika, Adamawa north
Senatorial district.
Admiral Murtala Nyako, the then governor
is from the southern Senatorial district.
Secretary of the party, Mallam Abdullahi
Bakari was from the Central Senatorial
district.
Binta Masi a Christian, Nyako a Muslim,
Bakari a Muslim, I believe if we had another
religion in the state that is prominent, one of
the positions would have gone to it. By God’s
grace Binta won the election to become a
senator, Abdullahi Bakari was appointed the
Principal Personal Assistant to the governor;
Nyako of course, finished his tenure. We were
thinking that we must reflect the same spirit in
the coming executive because the then acting
chairman, (Ibrahim Bilal) was a chairman of
Michika local government. When Binta left to
become a senator, the deputy (Late Shuaibu
Ya-Musa, a Muslim took over as the acting
chairman, that’s the position of the party. The
expectation was that there must be a mini
congress to correct this anomaly which never
happened. Unfortunately the then acting
chairman died, so we were left with no option
than to look for somebody to replace him.
And stakeholders brainstormed and felt
that Ibrahim Bilal should go since his bloc,
the 21 local government chairmen of the
party formed the largest group. And the
national headquarters bought into the idea
but that it should only be for two months. He
was given a letter for two months, subject to
performance and other opportunities within
the party. But typical of Nigerians, Bilal
remain infinity. I must admit that Bilal was
not a bad chairman initially. The problem
started when he started putting his posters,
billboards and on vehicles along with that
of contestants. And we felt that doesn’t
portray a neutral position. A chairman of a
party should not be seen on a poster with an
aspirant, until after the nomination process
has been concluded and the aspirant emerges
as the candidate of the party. So a lot of other
aspirants that intend to contest felt they will
not have a level playing ground. Indeed he
did not intend to play on a level playing
ground. He simply migrated his interest and
merged it with that of one of the candidates,
Senator Umaru Bindow, the current governor.
So that’s where the problem started and
then the Christian community started feeling
shortchanged that they have no stake in the
party. Because a lot of the other activities that
gave birth to the odd are that the governor
and the chairman will take all the other
14 members of the Working Committee to
Saudi Arabia for either Umrah or Hajj and
if there were any Christian remnants in the
executive they were just allowed to stay back
and cool their heels. We kept on pointing it
out to the then chairman, and eventually they
did some small cosmetic things and allowed
the few Christians within the executive to
go to Jerusalem on a pilgrimage devoid of
allowances. That is where we are and now
we have the opportunity of a Congress in
which we will elect new executive from the
Ward to the state and the Christians who are
a very large segment of the party are insisting
that if they don’t get carried along they have
alternative parties which is very inimical to
this party. So anybody who has the ambition
to win election in APC in Adamawa state
ought to feel worried about this potential
revolt. But somehow the government in the
state doesn’t seem to bother because retaining
Bilal appears to be in their own interest. And
when I tried as you are aware to point this
out to senior party members they didn’t
want it because that was the best position to
point out to them. Because they didn’t have
the opportunity to gauge the temperature in
that room, and I’m left with no option, we
felt that we should put our case straight to
the electorates, to Nigerians to judge for us
whether we are wrong in taking that position.
Don’t you think these kinds of skirmishes
are pointers to the fact that your party, the
APC is already in the graveyard as some will
have us believe, especially considering time
constraints with regards to congresses and
subsequent nomination of candidates?
Well you make me very sad if you say APC
is in the graveyard, because I’ve invested
all my life in the party. Historically I was a
member of the merger committee of APC,
being a member of the merger committee
of CPC, because I’ve been involved in this
merger process since 2011 when ACN and
CPC wanted to merge. At that time we called
it alliances because time was too short for a
full blown merger process. We realized quite
early that time, if we are going to wrest power
we needed to make a large party. So even the
initiation, the planning of the merger process
up to the execution of it
I was a member. I was a member of the first
National Working Committee of APC; I was
the National Vice Chairman Northeast before
I became SGF. So in a way, I look at all those
people claiming authority on that high table
somehow, especially as they forgot that I was
there before them. And as for me I sleep and
wake up APC. Therefore, to say that APC is
dead in my state is a sad thing to hear, but is
not dead. Let me give you a story, there was
a time when we were dispersed for general
elections in the state; our last meeting of the
presidential campaign committee and the
stakeholders.
There were presentations, state by state   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from Nigerian Pilot News. Click here to read the full text on the original website.