Huddersfield manager David Wagner will sit down with club owner Dean Hoyle next week to discuss the club’s future. David Wagner has 12 months to run on a two-year contract he signed last June, but speculation continues to mount over the 46-year-old. He has been linked with various jobs, both in England and abroad, since leading the Terriers to an unlikely promotion last season. After defying the odds again to keep them up, the German will be hot property this summer. But Wagner reminded a news conference before Sunday’s final game of the season against Arsenal that he still had a year to see out on his current deal. “We will do it next week, what we’ve done in the past,” Wagner said. “This discussion will be a discussion between Dean and me and then we’ll go from there. “I like everything we have done here so far and I’m under contract as well. He for sure has some very good ideas. I think it’s important that I share my ideas as well. “I totally get it that everybody asks this question, but for us, it’s business as usual — sit together after the season, reflect on what you’ve done and think about what you can do in the future together.” Wagner said he was focused on what it will take for Huddersfield to build on their survival this season. “Like always we will have to discuss a lot of things,” he said. “Not only transfers but improvement of the facilities so this club is ready, is ambitious and has space to improve. “This football club likes to improve and now we will discuss the next steps and there are a lot of steps for this club to take. This will be what the discussion is all about. “After what the club has done in the past I’m pretty sure it’s possible to take some further steps. How big and how quick, nobody knows.” The post Huddersfield Manager David Wagner To Discuss Club’s Future With Owner Next Week After Premier League Survival appeared first on 360Nobs.com.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from 360Nobs.com. Click here to read the full text on the original website.