Everyone loves a good redemption tale, but no one’s done it quite like Mo Salah. The Liverpool forward, who was recently named as the Footballer of the Year, has also hinted of a long-term commitment to the club ahead of the Champions League showdown in Kiev, Ukraine. The recent months for the Liverpool star have marked an incredible turnaround from his first Premier League stint with Chelsea just a few years ago. Who is Mo Salah? Mo Salah is a professional footballer who plays for Liverpool in the Premier League as well as the Egyptian national football team. Salah was born in Nagrig, Egypt on June 15, 1992 as Mohamed Salah Ghaly. Salah took up football in his youth and got his start with the club El Mokawloon in 2010 in the Egyptian Premier League. Shortly afterwards, he left his home country to play football in Switzerland for Basel, helping the team win the league championship and also winning the SAFP Golden Player Award. This early success caught the attention of Chelsea, who signed him to a $15 million (£11 million) contract in 2014, receiving praise from the legendary Jose Mourinho shortly after signing with the team. The London-based football club used him cautiously in his debut season however, loaning him to Fiorentina and Roma in Italy and ultimately signing to the latter team permanently in 2016. After a successful tenure in Roma in which he led the team to a second-place finish, Salah rejoined the Premier League, this time signing with Liverpool for a then-record club fee. He quickly established himself as an elite player there, breaking the club scoring record in his debut season and also becoming the first player in Premier League history to win three Premier League Player of the Month Awards within the same season. Salah was also recently named as the 2017-2018 PFA Players’ Player of the Year, the Liverpool Player of the Year and the Footballer of the Year, attesting his phenomenal success on the team. How old is Mo Salah? Mo Salah is 25-years-old. He was born on June 15, 1992. What is Mo Salah’s net worth? Mo Salah’s net worth is believed to be approximately $2.25 million (£1.6 million), according to The Richest. Mo Salah’s wealth is the result of his successful football career as well as his endorsements and sponsorships. In addition to playing for elite football clubs like Liverpool and Chelsea, Salah has also earned money through endorsements with companies like Falken Tires and Uber. Who is Mo Salah’s wife? Mo Salah has been married to his wife Maggi since 2013. The couple have a daughter, Makka, born in 2014. Mo Salah’s Liverpool career Since transferring to Liverpool in the summer of 2017, Salah quickly proved his worth and erased any doubts about his ability to compete in the Premier League. He was named as the Player of the Month in August 2017 and soon hit the top spot on the Premier League scoring charts on November 29, 2017 after scoring two goals against Stoke City. Salah soon became the second-fastest player to score 20 goals for the club and in March 2018 broke the scoring record for a Liverpool player in their debut season. He soon became the top goal scorer in Europe’s five top football leagues, even surpassing greats like Lionel Messi and Harry Kane. For his phenomenal performance in the current football season, Salah was recently named as the Footballer of the Year, the Players’ Player of the Year and the Liverpool Player of the Year.  Via Daily Mail   ___ Follow us on Twitter at @thesignalng Copyright 2018 SIGNAL. Permission to use portions of this article is granted provided appropriate credits are given to www.signalng.com and other relevant sources. The post Mo Salah’s Net Worth Revealed appeared first on SIGNAL.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from SIGNAL. Click here to read the full text on the original website.