A former president, Olusegun Obasanjo says Nigeria was more divided than ever before because president Muhammadu Buhari was playing the ethnic and religious game which was very unfortunate. Obasanjo stated this while briefing journalists at his presidential library in Abeokuta on Thursday. He noted that the ruling All Progressive Congress was taking Nigerians as fools. According to the former president, most Nigerians know that they were poorer today than when the APC came in and Nigeria was more impoverished with foreign loan jumping from $3.6bn to over $18bn to be paid by the present and future generations of Nigerians. He also berated the People Democratic party for apologising to Nigerians without disciplining those who were part of the problem. Obasanjo advised Nigerians to forgive the PDP but not forget otherwise they will be suffering from amnesia and the same ugliness may raise its head again “The APC, as a political party, is still gloating and revelling in its unrepentant misgovernance of Nigeria and taking Nigerians for fools” he said “There is neither remorse nor appreciation of what they are doing wrong.  It is all arrant arrogance and insult upon injury for Nigerians. “Whatever the leadership may personally claim, most Nigerians know that they are poorer today than when the APC came in and Nigeria is more impoverished with our foreign loan jumping from $3.6bn to over $18bn to be paid by the present and future generations of Nigerians. “The country is more divided than ever before because the leadership is playing the ethnic and religious game which is very unfortunate. “And the country is more insecure and unsafe for everybody.  It is a political party with two classes of membership.” “Since the inception of the Coalition for Nigeria Movement, many of the 68 registered political parties have contacted and consulted with the movement on coming together and working together. “The leadership of the movement, after detailed examination, wide consultation and bearing in mind the orientation, policies and direction of the movement, had agreed to adopt ADC as its platform to work with others for bringing about desirable change in the Nigeria polity and governance. “Nigerians may forgive, but Nigerians should never forget; otherwise they will be suffering from amnesia and the same ugliness may raise its head again.” he added   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook