 In what appears to be another recognition of a well sustained campaign aimed at ensuring that Nigerian youths are given the platform to actively participate in politics, the convener of the New Nigerian 2019 Movement, NN19, Dr. Chima Anyaso received another commendation from Chief Onuoha Ogba Bourdex, a political leader and senatorial aspirant on the platform of the All Progressive Grand alliance in Abia State.  While speaking yesterday in Igbere, Abia state, Chief Onuoha Ogba Bourdex praised Chima Anyaso’s commitment to ensuring that the voices of youths can be heard in Nigeria saying that recent activities of the NN19 movement has indeed changed the political landscape in favor of youths.  As a result of the success of this campaign for youth active participation, Chief Ogba Onuoha Bourdex urged Dr. Anyaso, who is seeking to represent the Bende Federal Constituency in the Federal House of Assembly under the PDP, to remain steadfast in the advocacy while urging him to also see to it that Bende Federal Constituency which Dr. Chima Anyaso is seeking to represent is placed on the front burner when he is eventually elected.  The Abia North senatorial candidate under APGA who led a delegation on a courtesy call to the Igbere country home of Dr. Anyaso was optimistic that the young politician will actualize his political ambition under any platform because of the kind of followership and support he enjoys, urging him to consider APGA as a platform to fulfill his dream.  In his response, Chima Anyaso said “I like to thank you Chief Ogba Bourdex for leading this delegation to visit me, I have known you for over twenty years. You are an upright man. For the past ten years you have visited my home with your family every Christmas. This shows how much we have known each other. However, I thank you for offering me your platform, but I will remain in PDP because I believe in this party and also because of my personal relationship with the governor, Dr. Okezie Ipkeazu. I am very confident that I will fly the PDP flag come 2019 general election as I already have the support of my people”  It will be recalled that Dr, Chima Anyaso lead a delegation of young Nigerians recently on a courtesy call to prominent Nigerian leaders, among whom were former president Olusegun Obasanjo, retired general Ibrahim Babangida and former president Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, in a bid to enlist the support of these leaders for youths to be given the platform to play more active roles in Nigeria’s political space.   The post APGA Chieftain Eulogies New Nigeria 2019 Convener, Assures of Support Across Party Line appeared first on THISDAYLIVE.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook This post was syndicated from THISDAYLIVE. Click here to read the full text on the original website.